in a healthy heart can strong emotions such as fear anger anxiety and a rxn to a natural disaster cause a heart attack or cardiac arrest? <negative_smiley>
"acute stress cardiomyopathy" is a condition which mimics heart attack. it can cause severe heart complications including heart failure and death. the diagnosis is generally made by the history (a sudden severe emotional or physical stress followed by chest symptoms) and the finding of heart muscle dysfunction (often in takotsubo pattern) and no coronary artery occlusion to explain it.
i am in hospital w/a "gram+ bacillus" sepsis. 6/8 blood culture bottles are +. caused by a dirty cut then severe cellulitis. i have heart vegetation from it they say. also on cellcept. can you educate me on whats the significance of heart vegetation?
what you describe is endocarditis. the vegetations harbor the bacteria that are identified when blood cultures are obtained. sepsis heart failure as well as "septic emboli" are potential complications 6 weeks of iv antibiotics followed by repeat blood cultures and follow up echocardiogram to insure treatment was adequate.
swelling on both shins no pain not warm slight redness and when i push on the skin it makes a dent like play doh. i have had cellulitis before but the similarity is the dent in the skin after pushing on it with my finger.
swelling the causes "pitting edema" with dents after compassion may be a sign of systemic disease including possible congestive heart failure. long standing pitting edema leads to increasing multiple morbidties including stasis dermatitis and painful ulcerations. simple blood pressure management and otc compression hose are possibilities.
painful swelling of mrs. rajashree mohanty’s legs from knee joints to feet(both legs) the disease started first with cellulitis of left leg about 6to 7?
bilateral leg swelling can have many causes. whether prior cellulitis in one extremity played any role is difficult to know but was unlikely to have been responsible for both legs. congestive heart failure lymphatic insufficiencies venous insufficiency and other systemic causes are more probable.
is sleep apnea a life threatening condition? can a 20 year old develop it? i do not snore vey loud but feel that i don't rest very well
there are numerous complications of untreated sleep apnea including high blood pressure congestive heart failure and stroke. this is something that should definitely be evaluated by your physician.
what does it mean when the cardiologist says that there is pressure on the right side of heart from sleep apnea?
apnea with no treatment with time may cause pulmonary hypertension and right heart failure. during sleep o2 goes down and co2 goes up causing the above changes. treatment is cpap or loose weight if overweight.
what is sleep apnea?
sleep apnea- a person has pauses in their breathing while sleeping. if left untreated this can lead to high blood pressure heart failure etc. 2 types of sleep apnea-obstructive & central. obstructive-airways are blocked & lead to pauses. central-the brain doesn't communicate to your muscles to breathe. more: <link>
will a child's weight increase after having asd surgery?
an asd repair will not cause an otherwise healthy child to gain weight. rarely a child with an asd will have significant enough heart failure that weight gain is slow. in those cases repairing the asd will restore normal weight gain.
will a child's weight increase after having asd surgery?
an asd usually does not cause heart failure. the repair is performed to prevent future problems. rarely an asd will cause heart failure and in that circumstance repair may improve growth.
is it better to weigh myself every morning? or should i weigh myself every other day?
no "right" answer. if a patient is monitoring congestive heart failure then close monitoring is needed. if one is on a weight loss program daily assessment could help reinforce progress but the safe level of decrease is 2 lbs per week so weighing in 1-2 times per week is more than enough.
i have tetralogy of fallot and sleep apnea my dr says its not a good idea to get pregnant but i want a second opinion what do you think?
the physicians of healthtap are ready to steer patients in the proper direction for care. however your suitability for pregnancy is best assessed by a complete evaluation by your own or another similarly trained physician. if pregnancy might put you into heart failure or aggravate poor oxygenation issues the process could weaken you & impair normal fetal development.
i have tetralogy of fallot and sleep apnea my dr says its not a good idea to get pregnant but i want a second opinion what do you think?
pregnancy is accompanied by many physiologic changes in the mother that may contribute to an increased risk for heart failure in patients with structural heart disease like tetralogy of fallot (tof). this risk may be further exacerbated by sleep apnea which is also a stress on the right heart. if you underwent complete tof repair the risks may not be prohibitive but i'd seek a second opinion.
i have tetralogy of fallot and sleep apnea my dr says its not a good idea to get pregnant but i want a second opinion what do you think?
find out from your doc why exactly you shouldn't get pregnant & then get a second opinion from both a cardiologist & a perinatologist (maternal-fetal medicine specialist). if you have pulmonary hypertension or other high risk cardiac problems pregnancy can cause significant stress & lead to heart failure or congestion. see these specialists first & stay safe.
is snoring when your 1 years old ok?
snoring is never ok but it is usually more a nuisance than a danger. a 1-year snorer has a stuffy nose also. if you see frequent pauses associated with restless sleep then a sleep study should be obtained. generally surgery (removal of tonsils and adenoids) is reserved for children over age 3 unless there is associated heart failure or failure to thrive - both are rare. see pediatrician.
i need some answers about current symptoms i am having. i am a recovering alcoholic. i have only been sober for 11 days. i also had a gastric bypass in 2004. i was drinking a 5 liter box of wine a day and prior i was drinking vodka. within the last 4
the sudden weight gain swelling and low back pain seem to point to a kidney issue. it is possible that your kidney function has decreased which is causing your body to not filter fluid effectively and instead retain large amounts fluids (leading to swelling in the body). however the swelling can also be attributed to congestive heart failure where your heart is not functioning properly so blood and fluid gets backed up into the body system. seeing a doctor is crucial. if the pain becomes too severe to tolerate it is prudent to go to the emergency department.
i think i am having heart problems or mini strokes i am way over weight my blood pressure is border line high and i take cholestrol meds i am exhausted before i begin my day can sleep at the drop of a hat. this week i can not raise my left arm with ou
exhaustion lack of energy and weakness associated with your cardiac history and obesity can be signs of heart failure. if you are experiencing chest pain shortness of breath and arm pain call 911. do not drive. these are classic signs of heart attack. timely treatment of heart attack is crucial for optimum treatment and recovery. i recommend you call 911 right away and be taken to the emergency room.
i heard snoring can trigger harmful health and personality changes. is this true?
snoring is a common finding in obstructive sleep apnea. due to poor sleep irritability somnolence and other characteristic changes may be manifest. osa can also be complicated with high blood pressure arryhtmias pulmonary arterial hypertension and long term with right sided heart failure.
i heard snoring can trigger harmful health and personality changes. is this true?
sleep apnea is assciated with floppy eyelid syndrom glaucoma. untreated sleep apnea can lead to congestive heart failure.
i am experiencing weight gain. what could be causing it?
weight gain can be caused by a multitude of reasons. medications such as some antidepressants and hormone replacement can cause weight gain. smoking cessation and sedentary lifestyle are also culprits. more serious reasons can include hypothyroidism diabetes renal failure or congestive heart failure. a simple visit to your doctor and lab tests should be able to diagnose these conditions.
if not treated can severe sleep apnea damage heart enough to cause significant drop in left ventricle ejection fracture? in 1 yr from over 50% to 12%
severe sleep apnea typically leads to raised pressure in the pulmonary artery which in turn causes increase in pressure in the right ventricle. when talking about ejection fraction it is usually referred to the left ventricle that is responsible for blood distribution. right heart failure may lead to left heart (ventricle) failure. also sa may contribute to hypertension that may cause ef decline.
if not treated can severe sleep apnea damage heart enough to cause significant drop in left ventricle ejection fracture? in 1 yr from over 50% to 12%
it is possible that sleep apnea can cause severe heart failure initially the heart failure affects the right heart eventually that will affect the left heart as well and cause severe heart failure. the good news is if one is compliant with cpap it is possible for the heart failure to improve.
i keep gaining weight but i don't eat much is there a medical reason for this?
hypothyroidism (low thyroid hormone) cushing's syndrome (too much cortisol) med side effects inactivity fluid retention; there are many reasons why weight could increase despite not eating much. regardless apart from retaining too much fluid (eg. congestive heart failure) if weight is increasing it is because the number of calories exceeds the body's need.
i am thinking of taking d-ribose for energy. what should i know about it? do you consider it generally safe? i have sleep apnea & fibromyalgia-like sx
d-ribose is a suuplement which is recommended for fibromyalgia and lack of energy and diastolic heart failure. the dose to be effective is 5 gms three times a day for three weeks and then 5 grms twice aday. you should use corvalen form which is better. it comes in a package of 280 grms and if after using the whole package you dont see any benifit then it is not going to work for you.
if i used diet pills like all the gals in the 70s am i at risk for heart failure later in life? should i be tested?
depends on agent and duration of exposure. talk to your doctor. he may recommend a simple echocardiogram (done in a competent lab) to assuage your concerns.
i have "central sleep apnea. " what is cure?
central sleep apnea is most commonly a reflection of heart failure and will improve if heart condition is treated and improved. there are other predominantly neurological causes that are much harder to treat but they are uncommon. specialized breathing machine can mitigate central sleep apnea.
is mysterious weight gain a possible symptom of heart failure?
leg swelling or edema is a symptom of heart failure which in it self a weight gain.
is there an alternative sleep apnea test other than an overnight sleep study?
questionaires are not very sensitive. the only sure way to know is an overnight psg (sleep stuyd). this can be done in the lab or at home. more and more insurance companies are moving towards in-home sleep studies in suspected apnea patients without significant illnesses like heart failure.
i'm taking a percription diet pill call phintermine which is the generic brand of adapex. i've had success with this med but i'm worried about possible heart failure in the future. my heart looks good now and my doctor has no concern with me taking it. sh
we know of no cause and effect of phenteramine with heart failure.
i have an old cad and i am hypertensive and obese. what is the best antihypertensive agent?
you might want to consider a weight loss program combined with exercise if your physician thinks it is appropriate for you. in addition to weight loss and in the absence of edema in your legs i would say you should start with an ace-i or and arb to control your bp. these have been shown to be effective agents in preventing congestive heart failure. discuss these options with your physician.
what is obstructed sleep apnea?
a disorder in which breathing is frequently interrupted for brief intervals during sleep occurs when tissues in the throat collapse and block airflow in and out of the lungs during sleep resulting in intermittent decreases in blood oxygen levels and transient arousals from sleep leading to poor sleep quality and excessive daytime sleepiness. untreated obstructive sleep apnea is associated with high blood pressure (hypertension) abnormal heart rate heart failure coronary artery disease (cad) diabetes increase risk for a stroke higher risk for depression increase risk of car accident and decreased sexual drive or impotence.
what does central sleep apnea syndrome mean?
central sleep apnea is where the brain tells the body not to breathe. it can be seen in normal sleep with transitions from one stage of sleep to the next. it is very common in stroke patients and can be seen in other medical problems like heart failure. treatment is cpap.
why do people with copd tend to have fluctuating weight gain and fluid retention?
copd can put a lot of strain on your heart causing heart failure. when you have heart failure you retain fluid.
why am i gaining weight? i've been trying to loose weight for a while now. i started being more physically active with my kids and maintained a steady loss of weight for a while but never changed my diet. after a while i got stuck at a certain weight and
twenty pounds in ten days is extreme and may represent water weight gain. this can be a sign of other serious issues (major hormonal changes heart failure kidney and liver issues). i don't want to scare you but you need to be evaluated by your doctor as soon as possible. after a thorough history physical exam and necessary testing your doctor should be able to figure out the cause of such a sudden increase in weight without major food intake. best of luck.
what are symptoms i can look for that may point to thyroid problems that result in weight gain? family thinks thyroid issues are to blame i think food
thyroid dysfunction can be characterized by changes in weight heat/cold intolerance a fast or slow pulse swelling and even congestive heart failure. thyroid evaluation starts very simply with blood tests ( tsh and free t4). you may require further testing if these results are abnormal.
what is pickwickian syndrome that commonly affects overweight individuals?
obesity hypoventilation syndrome is a condition in which morbidly obese pts have difficulty breathing when lying flat. the weight of their own chest along with their large abdomen pushing up on their diaphragm resticts full expansion of lungs. they then dont get adequate oxygenation at night. longterm the pts get pulmonary hyper tension and rt sided heart failure if not treated. weight loss/cpap.
what is my next step to treating sever sleep apnea? i was made to sleep on my back only during my first night at the sleep center. it resulted in a diagnosis of severe sleep apnea but there was not time to test a cpap. do i need to spend another night a
severe sleep apnea needs to be treated as it can lead to among many other things congestive heart failure long-term ( cor pulmonale). having had the psg ( sleep study) your next step is to get a cpap titration test. wearing the mask at the proper pressure settings can be 100% effective in treating the condition and is the most successful non-surgical alternative available. sleeping on your back would expectedly favor obstruction as gravity and loss of muscle tonus allows the tongue base to fall backward and cause obstruction. it is possible you obstruct in all positions but i wouldn't know that without the test results. you should further discuss this with your sleep pulmonologist.
when is a low salt diet "low" enough?
49 f from ca asks: when is low salt diet "low enough". when you get to the salt intake recommend by the one prescribing the low na diet. if for htn then goal is <1 500 mg sodium a day. read labels. if for heart failure may be < 250 mg na a day. i recommend the app fitness pal which will track your sodium and potassium intake as well as many other things and you can see if you are low enough.
what are some of the health problems associated with anorexia nervosa and binge-eating disorders?
the symptoms of anorexia are mostly related to starvation or malnutrition. they can be quite severe including heart failure loss of bone strength dehydration loss of menstruation. binge eating (eating too much at one sitting) is not really associated with symptoms other than weight gain. binge eating and vomiting (bulimia) is associated with health problems that are due to the vomiting.
what could symptoms of severe weight loss heart palpitations stomach pain and respiratory distress signify?
beri-beri is due to a vitamin deficiency and can cause heart palpitations weight loss congestive heart failure and respiratory distress. hyperthyroidism could also cause a lot of these symptoms. you should see a doctor where they could check your blood thyroid levels.
i took ephedra/asprin/caffeine diet pills for about 8 years. could they have caused my heart failure?
every cell in the body needs an adequate supply of energy especially the heart since it beats 70-80 times a minute for life. you may have upset energy balance and would benefit from vitamin therapy. see my blog "oxygen the spark of life and look at some of the older posts.
what are the health risks of obesity that doctors will help?
there are many risks associated with obesity including type 2 diabetes hypertension high cholesterol heart disease congestive heart failure arthritis sleep apnea alzheimer's disease to name a few. with weight loss under help of a doctor many of these conditions can be reversed or significantly improved.
what are some ways to help fix cure or just improve sleep apnea?
weight loss or just avoiding sleeping on the back can improve sleep apnea. there are several medical treatments for sleep apnea (cpap dental devices surgery). if you have sleep apnea you should have it evaluated since untreated sleep apnea can cause not only daytime symptoms (sleepiness fatigue) but can also lead to high blood pressure heart attack heart failure and stroke.
what is a good med regimen for someone with pcos and congestive heart failure to lose weight? very desperate!
especially given cardiac issues your weight loss has to be medically supervised. please discuss with your cardiologist. there are good cardiac rehab programs which involve weight management with diet and exercise if that is appropriate for you based on your cardiologist's recommendations.
i was just diagnosed w/sleep apnea & was told my oxygen dropped to 68. i know normal levels are in the 90s. what is the effect of levels in the 60s?
hypoxia into the 60s is quite serious. risks include but are not limited to hypertension heart failure stroke heart attack and even death.
with heart problems do you gain or lose weight and why?
this is a broad question. but with heart failure pts usually gain wt from retained water.
what risks result from leaving sleep apnea untreated?
left unchecked sleep apnea can progress to cor pulmonale or right sided heart failure.
i have sinus tachycardi but want to stop bisoprolol and see how i go. i eat healthy and im not stressed but my bp is always 140/93 and 120bpm causes?
you say you have sinus tachycardia but there are many causes of this including excess thyroid hormone (endogenous or medication) pregnancy infection anemia stress anxiety pain fever - and then there are cardiac causes like congestive heart failure and inappropriate sinus tachycardia. what's your cause?
wanted to know where can i find a diet plan for congestive heart failure and renal disease combined?
your nephrologist and heart failure cardiologist should absolutely be involved in your diet. good nephrology departments should have a dietician available to consult with you as diet is very important in renal disease.
would it be possible to have a heart attack from a diet pill?
most "diet pills" contain some kind of stimulant. if you have some underlying heart disease these drugs may produce heart attacks. other possible complications include fast potentially dangerous heart beats heart failure high blood pressure and pulmonary hypertension (high bp in the lungs). you may lose a few pounds but they'll probably come back. your heart function might not.
if someone does of a heart attack with diabetes 2 and had swollen legs from a fall could that have been the cause?
heart attacks occur for multiple reasons. diabetes can affect the coronary circulation and cause blockages. swollen legs could indicate congestive heart failure or even blood clots in the legs which could travel to effect the lungs and the heart. even bruising of the heart from a fall could set up abnormal heart rythms which might lead to a heart attack.
what is the definition or description of: sleep apnea?
a disorder in which breathing is frequently interrupted for brief intervals during sleep occurs when tissues in the throat collapse and block airflow in and out of the lungs during sleep resulting in intermittent decreases in blood oxygen levels and transient arousals from sleep leading to poor sleep quality and excessive daytime sleepiness. untreated obstructive sleep apnea is associated with high blood pressure (hypertension) abnormal heart rate heart failure coronary artery disease (cad) diabetes increase risk for a stroke higher risk for depression increase risk of car accident and decreased sexual drive or impotence.
if sleep apnea isn't treated can it cause afib?
if sleep apnea is severe and not treated for many years it can lead to heart problems : it's usually in the form of right sided heart failure. the later may be associated with heart rhythm problems
my body mass index is 32. 8 are there any risks on my body or any health problems in the immediate future?
by those measurements you are obese. depending on your bone structure and muscle mass you are at risk. as far as the immediate future that would depend on your current state of wellness. sleep apnea heart disease congestive heart failure diabetes and others? discuss with your pcp and get on a good safe weight reduction program associated with diet and exercise. you can do it!
my grandmother has pneumonia with bloodcots. what is that & how that can effect her with congestive heart failure & diabeties type 2?
pneumonia is an infection in the lungs. it can be serious especially in elderly and those with chronic medical problems so it should be seen and treated at once. chf and diabetes can impair blood flow. impaired or sluggish blood flow can cause clots and infection can potentially increase the body's tendency to clot so all of this can be related.
my husband has crohn's disease n so far every treatment drs have tried are unsuccessful. on remicade (infliximab) now. does this med cause weight gain? hes puttn on.
according to remicade (infliximab). com side effects: sudden weight gain (sign of heart failure) or shortness of breath swelling of your ankles or feet numbness weakness tingling changes in your vision seizures hives difficulty breathing chest pain high or low blood pressure swelling of face and hands and fever or chills. other problems: lupus hepatitis lymphoma ans infections.
i have a throbbing jugular vein and i'm overweight also thought i seen spots a few mins ago?
you need prompt evaluation. prominent jugular vein i. e. jvd. can be a sign of heart failure. if you are obese there may also be a component of sleep apnea. please call your doctor asap or go to nearest er. seeing spots may mean your blood pressure is low please get prompt evaluation.
what about pioglitazone as a treatment of type 2 diabetes and about restrictions and side effects?
pioglitazone is an excellent secondary choice or added to metformin - oral type 2 anti-diabetic drug. should be avoided in cardiac patients with mod - severe congestive heart failure may cause lower extremity swelling/edema.
mom had chf died @ 87. my left foot/ankle stays swollen for past 2 yrs to varying degrees. i'm 52 male 40 lbs overweight w/hbp. think i have chf?
if your blood pressure remains high by definition you have some degree of heart failure. however a careful examination would help clarify the issue.
i am an 18-year-old female but my blood pressure is always 92/57-60. my bmi is 24. 2. it is naturally occurring (no meds). is it dangerous?
18 f bmi 24. 2 worries about bp 92/57. no worries. in general the lower your bp and bmi the longer you will live and the less time you will spend during your later years living with the consequences of higher bp: stroke heart attach heart failure kidney failure and aortic aneurysm. keep up the good work the only low bp to worry about is if you faint when it gets low for you.
my weight seems to fluctuate alot. is it normal or okay for it to be fluctuating from 62-65kg each few days?
your changing weight is due to fluid. you can easily gain or lose 1 kiolgram/day in fluid weight. rapid weight gain or loss is due to fluid accumulation or excretion. if you continue to gain weight rapidly you are accumulating fluid and need to see a cardiologist to see if you have congestive heart failure.
would adding a diet pill harm me with the meds i'm already on as i had a hysto last year and since then can't lose the weight i gained? i have fibro.
it really depends on what other medications you take. your profile indicates you take xanax (alprazolam) and have a history of heart failure and atrial fibrillation. some of the more common medications and herbals used as 'diet pills" may worsen anxiety and increase heart rate. i think you should consult your cardiologist before adding any "diet pills".
i have difficulty breathing when lying down. how do i tell if this is "obstructive sleep apnea" or "heart failure"? i do have obstructive sleep apnea
the symptom is called orthopnea. the way to find out if it's heart failure is to go to a doctor and find out if it's heart failure. the doctor may be able to tell you right there and then or (s)he may have to run some tests.
i have difficulty breathing when lying down. how do i tell if this is "obstructive sleep apnea" or "heart failure"? i do have obstructive sleep apnea
could be your heart. unlikely at your age. see your md for assessment.
is tympanic membrane perforation a contraindication for cpap & apap use for sleep apnea what is the treatment for ear discharge from this condition?
cpap overview cpap (continuous positive airway pressure) is a tool which can be used to assist the oxygenation of several respiratory pathologies. cpap is not a r eplacement for any medicati on or procedure but a t ool which can provide a high level of ventilatory support without the need for rsi or intubation. patients whose condition is resistant to parenteral medications but whose respiratory effort does not yet require intubation should be considered prime candidates for cpap. indications? respiratory distress secondary to suspected congesti ve heart failure acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema pneumonia and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (asthma bronchitis emphysema). contraindications? unconsciousness? suspected pneumothorax? inadequate respiratory drive? shock/hypotension (bp <90)? chest wall trauma? persistent nausea/vomiting? has active upper gi bleeding or history of recent gastric surge
my husband had severe high blood pressure has gone from 290 to 225 has maintained weight 3 years. shouldnt his dosage be lowered? he gets liteheaded.
hi. your husband still has severe high blood pressure! he needs a thorough evaluation for causes of high bp and for congestive heart failure and kidney disease. not enough information to tell you anymore. he needs really good medical attention! good luck!
my mother is overweight. she has swollen ankles feet and legs. very painful. red with sores. has had fever and chills. any suggestions?
these symptoms could have serious causes including cellulitis (infection) circulatory problems even heart failure. she needs to be evaluated today. the fever is particularly concerning. please take her to her doctor an urgent care center or emergency room as soon as possible. good luck!
should i risk obstructive sleep apnea surgery?
i'm guessing you have been diagnosed with obstructive sleep apnea and the question is whether the surgery is worth it. those with obstructive sleep apnea have a higher rate of heart disease and heart failure weight gain decreased energy and a host of other issues. the surgery itself is usually a tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy well known and low risk procedures but not totally innocent.
scared i may have heart failure. i'm 30 in good shape eat healthy and workout. but have been feeling run down nauseous and fast heart beat?
the symptoms of heart failure also include leg swelling and shortness of breath when lying down. there are also several things you doctor can look for on physical exam. i would see your doctor about your symptoms but i doubt it's heart failure.
is congestive heart failure due to high blood pressure and obesity reversible? heart is enlarged and stiff but there's no plaque buildup in arteries.
if the blood pressure is well controlled and weight is reduced the heart will remodel and become more flexible again.
i have severe enlarged tonsils (grade 4) causing sleep apnea. i refused treatment but ent said very dangerous. what can happen?
in an old western movie one guy might shoot another for annoyingly loud snoring. in the real world sleep apnea (osa) causes daytime drowsiness and fatigue so driving can kill someone. nightly low blood oxygen can cause sudden death from heart arrhythmia. heart artery disease heart attack heart failure stroke memory problems morning headache mood swings depressed feelings irritability.
life duration of someone with congestive heart failure corrected by diet?
congestive heart failure has many many causes. without knowing the cause and severity of congestive heart failue there is no way to answer this question.
life duration of someone with congestive heart failure corrected by diet?
corrected would imply cured and even though diet (i. e. : low salt vitamin supplements and weight loss) can help congestive heart failure (chf) usually means there is significant underlying disease of the heart muscle and a cure is elusive. the outlook for someone with chf has a lot to do with what caused the heart problem in the first place & treatment will almost always include medication.
my husband is overweight and the third time in a year he has has pnuemonia. is this normal?
is not uncommon in middle-aged and elderly adults (age 50-85) following treatment in hospital for community-acquired pneumonia. risk factors for recurrent pneumonia include: male sex congestive heart failure lung disease and/or other chronic diseases. it is important to have chest xray between episodes of pneumonia to be sure that it is clearing up.
on medications for dcm and heart failure. is a weight loss program like body by vi that involves natural supplements safe to use to lose weight.
careful with any weight loss program using natural supplements. when you have dilated cardiomiopathy treatment require a fine balanced of low sodium diet fluid intake and medications. any changes of the above can decompensate the balance and start chf symptoms. i will talk to your cardiologist and dietitian and do a careful search of the diet. good luck.
on medications for dcm and heart failure. is a weight loss program like body by vi that involves natural supplements safe to use to lose weight.
cardiologist before using any "natural" supplements.
i have very enlarged tonsils meeting in midline that cause sleep apnea. will ignoring/not treating it be dangerous?
in an old western movie one guy might shoot another for annoyingly loud snoring. in the real world sleep apnea (osa) causes daytime drowsiness and fatigue so driving can kill someone. nightly low blood oxygen can cause sudden death from heart arrhythmia. heart artery disease heart attack heart failure stroke memory problems morning headache mood swings depressed feelings irritability.
my sleep apnea home study came back with an average of 3. 3 episodes per hour. my o2 average was 90. 5%. i had 26 episodes of low o2. the lowest was 81%?
your study is consistent with obstructive sleep apnea. you should see your physician and have cpap set up for you. osa can lead to hypertension congestive heart failure or early dementia and difficulty losing weight. it is important therefore to use your cpap machine. see your physician about getting one and having it set up for you.
my dr told me i need to use cpap for moderate osa. i am only 24. will refusing treatment be dangerous?
in an old western movie one guy might shoot another for annoyingly loud snoring. in the real world sleep apnea (osa) causes daytime drowsiness and fatigue so driving can kill someone. nightly low blood oxygen can cause sudden death from heart arrhythmia. heart artery disease heart attack heart failure stroke memory problems morning headache mood swings depressed feelings irritability.
sleep apnea moderate condition. do i have to use the apnea machine?
wanna keep blood gases @ normal levels & not worry about heart failure brain kidney liver retinal pancreas gi bladder thyroid & adrenal oxidative stresses or are you ok with organs working thrice as hard to keep things going till morning while starving for o2? how bout racing your car engine in park for 8hrs- better yet on only 10 oz. gas? want the apnea to become severe? choice is yours.
very sedentary with depression. now weak legs. how best to strengthen the legs please. will i get heart failure from lack of exercise?
you need to get up and get moving. start walking daily even if its in 5min increments and boost to a total of 1hour steady walking daily. minimum. if you stay sedentary there are certainly health issues from that and there are many pluses to the exercise. less depression is one of the big benefits of exercise.
what meds should someone with congestive heart failure due to hbp stress and obesity be on? no plaque buildup but heart is enlarged and stiff.
generally expect to see a diuretic beta blocker and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor in addition to meds to control underlying cardiac risk - meds for diabetes hypertension cholesterol etc. many other meds may be added - hydralazine / nitrate digoxin for example and others may be substituted. your cardiologist will know your case best.
what meds should someone with congestive heart failure due to hbp stress and obesity be on? no plaque buildup but heart is enlarged and stiff.
a beta blocker to control blood pressure and heart rate an ace inhibitor or arb to reduce the development of fibrosis in the heart muscle aspirin and possibly a staton (even with no plaque). just as important is weight loss. your heart has to work harder to supply that extra fat. less fat means less work for your heart.
swollen hands face and knees lymphodema low body temp hot red skin & headache every night. what could cause this? i also have asthma & raynauds.
are you taking prednisone or other steroids? also sometimes raynaud's is treated with calcium channel blockers that cause leg swelling. can be hypothyroidism nephrotic syndrome heart failure. you need a workup.
how do diuretics cause weight loss?
diuretics are a class of drugs that cause the kidneys to excrete a larger volume of urine. this can be a beneficial effect in patients with high blood pressure congestive heart failure or soft tissue fluid retention. these are not generally used for weight loss except in those individuals retaining extra fluid. can cause dehydration and electrolyte abnormalities in normal pts trying to lose weight.
how does chronic liver disease affect the heart?
some with liver disease and cirrhosis develop pulmonary hypertension and right heart failure. if your liver disease is related to alcoholism that will also lead to heart dilation and failure by itself.
how bad is it to drink diet tea? for example 1 gallon a week.
tea also contains caffeine. diet tea contains an artificial edulcorant like splenda or nutrasweet or alike which is suspicious but not proven to cause many things. 1 gallon a week for someone with congestive heart failure or for pts with difficulty to urinate may be problematic. but in general i do not see anything wrong.
how to get rid of water weight gain?
usually with sodium restriction and water pills. it's important to investigate why you have water retention and make sure it's not heart failure or some thing serious
how does sleep apnea affect people's lives? patient and spouse
it interrupts the spouse's sleep. it can cause or worsen heart attack stroke diabetes hypertension heart failure among others. the patient is tired usually and can fall asleep inappropriately.
how do you treat central sleep apnea?
in order to treat central sleep apnea you have to determine the underlying cause and try to correct it. narcotics and other sedating meds can cause central apnea and it will go away with discontinuation of the medicine. heart failure causes a form of central sleep apnea and can resolve with treatment of the heart failure. some causes of central apnea are not treatable.
how do you treat central sleep apnea?
central sleep apnea can be caused by heart failure or sedating properties of medications. that needs to be evaluated and addressed first. other have no know cause so they are treated with a special pap machine called an asv or adapto servo ventilator.
can you be denied a heart transplant operation because you are obese?
we have done weight loss surgery on several patients with end stage heart failure who had to lose weight to get a transplant. some got better and didn't need the transplant after dramatic weight loss.
how bad is binge eating for your body?
complications of eating disorders include cavities swelling electrolyte imbalances kidney & heart failure brain atrophy acne osteoporosis death.
how does obstructive sleep apnea impact health?
sleep apnea is a serious sleep disorder that occurs when a persons breathing is interrupted during sleep. if left untreated sleep apnea can result in a number of health problems including: high blood pressure stroke heart failure irregular heart beats and heart attacks diabetes depression worsening of adhd sleep apnea may also affect everyday activities.
can children get congestive heart failure if they are obese?
generally no unless they are grossly or morbidly obese with complications such as high blood pressure severe sleep apnea etc.
can children get congestive heart failure if they are obese?
children don't get congestive heart failure just from being obese. kids with birth defects of the heart can get heart failure but kids born with normal hearts usually don't have enough years of childhood to develop heart symptoms from obesity. obese kids can get cholesterol plaques in the arteries high blood pressure and type 2 diabetes but the heart damage should not appear until adulthood.
heart failure diet to lose water retention?
the most important thing--almost the only thing--is to restrict the sodium content of your diet. sodium will cause fluid retention.
could diet pills cause heart failure?
during the phenertermine scare several years ago certain valvular disorders as well as pulmonary artery hypertension were associated with its use in weight loss regimens. heart failure was a possible result. some older diet pills are variants of amphetamines which is a "sympathomimetic". chronic use of such agents can lead to cardiomyopathy that may result in heart failure. new agents better?
can we die during sleep peacefully if we have sleep apnea?
sleep apnea is a dangerous disease. it can cause or worsen heart attack stroke diabetes hypertension heart failure among others. the answer is in severe cases it can kill. dying short of breath gasping is not peaceful.
what are some complications of paget's disease?
the abnormally rapid process of bone remodelling that is associated with paget’s disease can sometimes lead to a build-up of calcium in the blood. the medical term for this is hypercalcaemia - leasds to extreme tiredness depression drowsiness constipation bone pain heart failure sarcoma is a type of cancer that starts in the bone cells. very rarely it can occur as a complication of paget’s.
what is the death rate for paget's disease?
paget's disease of the bone (and i assume you bone not nipple) in about 1% of cases gives rise to aggressive cancers. let's hope this does not happen to you. a few patients with paget's died as a result of high-output heart failure from the arteries connecting directly with veins in the bone; hopefully with today's treatment this will not happen. good luck.
who should avoid taking herceptin (trastuzumab)?
there are many considerations but you should not take herceptin (trastuzumab) if you have a history of congestive heart failure. visit with your doctor to see if herceptin (trastuzumab) is right for you.
coulda person be denied a heart transplant if their heart failed due to obesity and refusing to exercise?
obesity itself is an unlikely cause of heart failure. the heart may have been damaged by diseases (atherosclerosis high blood pressure diabetes heart attack etc. ) that are made worse by obesity.
can mitral valve prolapse be related to unintentional weight loss?
mitral valve prolapse is a description of how the valve closes. it does increase the incidence of mitral regurgitation (leaking valve). i have not heard of it causing a patient to loose weight. i have seen patients with severe mitral regurge gain weight (retaining extra water from heart failure). i would look at other causes and discuss eith your physician.
will a thigh high compression garment help with lymphedema?
it depends on why you have lymphedema your activity level your associated illnesses such as congestive heart failure and your ability to wear a compression garment appropriately. it is definitely worth a try however you should consult with your doctor to make sure that there are no other treatments for your lymphedema and that associated diseases are being treated. good luck!
what can mammograms show besides tumor?
the mammogram can show non-cancerous lesions like lymph nodes cysts and fibroadenomas. the appearance of the milk-producing tissue (fibroglandular tissue) can change depending on your hormonal state. even trauma e. g. from a seat-belt injury can show up on a mammogram. the breasts can also change in the setting of systemic illness such as congestive heart failure.
what are risks of the cancer drug herceptin (trastuzumab)?
herceptin (trastuzumab) is remarkably well tolerated. the most common side effect is a decline in the pumping ability of the heart (called the left ventricular ejection fraction) possibly leading to congestive heart failure. thus people getting herceptin (trastuzumab) should have an echocardiogram done before and about every 3 months while on herceptin (trastuzumab). most of the time the heart recovers after the herceptin (trastuzumab) is stopped.
can doctors tell me what does your bmi have to be to be hospitalized?
a bmi over 35 is sometimes called "morbid obesity" but there is no bmi indication for hospitalization. what would you do in the hospital that you can't do at home? some people tolerate high bmi very well. indications for hospitalization would be from complications of obesity. heart failure respiratory failure infection etc.
does lisinopril for blood pressure cause weight gain?
while anyone can have any adverse reaction to a drug in general lisinopril and other ace inhibitors do not cause weight gain as a side effect. however some large studies have seen a relationship. the question is whether the association means that the drug caused the weight gain or is the weight gain from something else. one cause of gain is congestive heart failure so may need to be checked out.
difficulty breathing i am over weight bmi is 40. 0+ last i checked i've noticed when i lay in bed at night on my back i struggle to get my breath i have to roll on my side or stomach is this due to my overweight? i've also been snoring really loud and some
by far the most common reason for sleep apnea (disordered breathing during sleep) is obesity. with weight gain the tissues surrounding your chest throat and nasal passages become heavy and floppy. this makes it harder for these areas to inflate with breathing leading to loud snoring and difficulty with proper oxygenation. there are a few things you should do. -first make an appointment to see your doctor. talk to them about your problems and have them examine you for signs of rarer diseases that could be causing your symptoms such as heart failure. -create a diet and exercise plan. weight loss is the best long-term way to treat sleep apnea due to weight gain. -consider a sleep study. if your symptoms are severe and are affecting your daily life consider a sleep study to evaluate your disordered breathing. -other treatments besides weight loss include cpap (continued positive airway pressure) surgery or muscle strengthening exercises. talk to your doctor about your best options. good luck!
do you think having an seriously overweight child can be a form of child abuse or neglect?
seriously overweight children can get adult medical problems such as diabetes high blood pressure and even heart failure.
do snris cause edema or weight gain or worsening heart failure?
it causes those but remember that do not blame solely the drugs.
how to tell what are symptoms of sleep apnea?
major symptoms are snoring witnessed apneas; non-restorative sleep daytime somnolence. often sleep apnea is associated with migraines arrhythmias of the heart such as afib. may also increase the risk of heart failure or heart attack.
a 42yr old female trucker overweight right side of heart working harder than left side. whats it mean? blockage on left side? docctor recently told her this and wants to do echo test.
there are multiple reasons why your "right side of the heart" (right ventricle) could be working harder. the more common cause of right side heart failure is left heart failure. if you were told that your right side is affected and not your left side then the problem could be caused by an increase in the blood pressure in the lungs. an echocardiogram of your heart certainly could help your doctor to answer this question. certainly you should be evaluated by a cardiologist.
can mild obstructive sleep apnea cause rv enlargement in the heart?
this is one of the reasons why sleep apnea should be treated since it can lead to ride sided heart failure. if treated right ventricular enlargement and heart failure can be prevented.
how healthy are pickles?
they contain a lot of salt. you can use them if you do not have heart failure and liver or kidney disease that cause sodium retention.
can you develop chf or hf suddenly from stressing your heart with high bp and sleepapnea and other factors? and if it can happen is it reversible?
long standing uncontrolled hypertension and untreated sleep apnea both can lead to heart failure down the road.
does gallbladder adenomycsis cause weight gain?
is no. but how do you know you have gallbladder adenomyosis? if you have problems with sudden excessive weight gain it could be from excessive fluid in your abdomen or congestive heart failure with fluid retention. i think you should have your doctor check you out.
anyone who is afflicted with congestive heart failure & edema that has it go away with diet change?
diet can certainly make congestive heart failure worse. salt needs to be closely watched as it will precipitate fluid retention making the congestive failure even worse. although diet can improve symptoms of congestive heart failure the problem still exist so continued care needs to be applied. with time the heart can improve with regards to its function so make sure medications are continued.
do i have heart failure? i'm 18 with sleep apnea chronic stress hbp fatigue palpatation short of breath and many other issues that aren't solved
your sleep apnea issues by treating your sleep apnea you feel much better.
do i have heart failure? i'm 18 with sleep apnea chronic stress hbp fatigue palpatation short of breath and many other issues that aren't solved
it sounds like there are quite a few symptoms that should be evaluated. an echocardiogram would tell about your heart function and potentially if there are any heart structural reasons for fatigue palpitations shortness of breath. an event monior would help assess if there is a heart rhythm cause of palpitations. an 18yo with hypertension is unusual- will need consideration for other causes.
do i have heart failure? i'm 18 with sleep apnea chronic stress hbp fatigue palpatation short of breath and many other issues that aren't solved
is a clinical diagnosis supported by a battery of test like chest x ray 2d echocardiogram ekg and labs like b natriuretic peptide. history and physical very important before any test. most common cause of sleep apnea is obesity. and may be the htn palpitation sob and fatigue is all because of the obesity/osa/physical deconditioning syndrome. at 18 doubt you are in chf. but see your physician.
having shortness of breath & yawning somewhat have diabetes type 2 what can i do?
if you are short of breath. it might turn out to be something like anemia or poor sleep but shortness of breath and yawning in a diabetic on actos (pioglitazone) w/ htn is coronary artery disease or heart failure until proven otherwise. you could also have a metabolic problem or infection but it's best to be safe. diabetic with htn over 65 + breathlessness on actos (pioglitazone) = chf= emergency room now. consider 911.
can drinking too much water cause weight gain? and is it dangerous?
the only way drinking water can cause weight gain is if you have heart failure or kidney failure
can a-fib be caused by sleep apnea or laying on left side had 3 occasions were a-fib started by simply laying on left side? if so why?
sleep apnea does elevate a person's risk of sleep apnea but the following things do: other risk factors: high blood pressure. coronary heart disease (chd) heart failure. rheumatic (ru-mat-ik) heart disease. structural heart defects such as mitral valve prolapse. pericarditis (per-i-kar-di-tis; a condition in which the membrane or sac around your heart is inflamed)
am recently very over weight & not active as before-very out of shape. a few weeks ago feet & hands start to swell at times is it because of weight?
sudden swelling of hands ; feet could be due to heart failure and you need to see a cardiologist especially if you have any shortness of breath or feel any chest tightness. allergies could also cause swelling of hands ; feet but usually there is rash or ichiness too. hypothyroidism could also cause weight gain ; swelling of hands ; feet that should also be checked by your physician.
can you die from chf i have it real bad my chest stays hurting and i'm swollen all over i have type 2 diabetes and my father he done had 5 heart attacks he got the same thing and he had open heart surgery and they had to put stints in his heart valves and
unfortunately heart failure is very serious and progression is life threatening. there have been great strides in improving outcomes but any effective treatment relies on patients learning about the disease and knowing how to respond to symptoms how to effectively manage fluids and how to make heart healthy lifestyle decisions. if the chest pain is new head to the ed tonight.
what are the treatments for epirubicin-induced cardio toxicity?
the degree of cardiac toxicity varies from asymptomatic with reduced ejection fraction to frank heart failure(cardiomyopathy). these conditions are treated same way as heart failure due to other causes like ischemic heart failure.
all spo2 spirometry and heart tests are pretty normal. yet it's still hard to catch breath sometimes especially when talking. is obesity a factor?
obesity hypoventilation syndrome - breathing problems related to obesity similar to osa (obstructive sleep apnea) affecting gas exchange in lungs which causes decreased oxygen and increased co2. this condition left untreated can lead to pulmonary hypertension right sided heart failure leg swelling and increased red blood cells to compensate. typically a sleep study is done to make diagnosis.
does the obesity paradox state that it is healthy for someone to be overweight?
for most people being overweight or obese is a risk factor for developing coronary arterial disease type 2 diabetes hypertension sleep apnea and other chronic medical problems. for a certain population of patients suffering from heart failure chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and renal failure it appears to be advantageous to be overweight.
according to the obesity paradox why is it healthy for people to be overweight?
patients with chronic conditions such as congestive heart failure copd chronic renal failure it appears that being overweight and mildly obese associated with improved longevity compared with normal weight patients. this phenomenon has been termed the “obesity paradox”. for everyone else obesity is still considered to be a major risk factor for cardiovascular and peripheral vascular disease.
can beta blockers cause weight gain?
weight gain can occur as a side effect of some beta blockers especially the older ones such as atenolol (tenormin) and metoprolol (lopressor toprol-xl). the average weight gain is no more than 4 pounds (about 2 kilograms). newer beta blockers such as carvedilol (coreg) don't usually cause weight gain as a side effect. weight may rise in the first weeks of taking the beta blocker and then generally stabilizes. however the beta blockers that can cause weight gain usually aren't prescribed unless other medications haven't worked or if you have a specific heart condition that requires taking those medications. beta blockers are used to treat a host of conditions including high blood pressure heart failure migraines glaucoma and anxiety. doctors aren't sure exactly why some beta blockers cause weight gain. it could be that beta blockers slow your metabolism. also if you switch from taking a water pill (diuretic) to a beta blocker as a treatment for high blood pressure you may gain a few pounds of weight that the diuretic kept off. if you're taking a beta blocker for heart failure tell your doctor immediately if you begin to gain more than 3 to 4 pounds (about 1. 5 to 2 kilograms) particularly if the weight gain continues beyond your first week of taking the drug. this could mean that fluid is building up in your legs abdomen or chest which may signal that your heart failure is worsening.
always gasp for air when i sleep regardless the position i sleep on side & back. i thought sleep apnea occur when lying on back. why is it happening?
in general snoring or apnea may improve based on sleep position if mild but moderate to severe apnea will occur in any sleeping position. other conditions can lead to nocturnal shortness of breath. heart failure or asthma are examples.
completed sleep study and have mild sleep apnea. oxygen recorded during sleep 86%. will a cpap machine help ease my high rate of pvcs (20 000) a day.
hi derrick there is data that demonstrates that cpap usage does decrease the number of pvcs but this was only in patients diagnosed with heart failure. keep in mind that regular cpap usage should improve any current symptoms related to sleep apnea such as day time fatigue and will also prevent long term complications such as pulmonary hypertension. hope this helps!
does an overweight person usually have a higher heart rate than a normal weight person? 27yo 200lbs 5'3. heart rate between 90 and 120's.
many variables; easily changeable moment by moment under brain control. at same time do people with congestive heart failure commonly have? ed resting heart rates? yes. however heart rate by itself is a very unreliable predictor of heart health. at same time cvds typically begins later childhood yet is asymptomatic for decades. study my answers & focus on protecting your health before bad.
does obstructive sleep apnea affect heart function or atherosclerosis in the arteries? in which way is it a risk factor for heart disease? thanks doctors
sleep apnea is one of common condition contributing high blood presssure heart condition. . due to frequentcepisides of apnea(" not breathing") there is lack of oxygen delivery to vital organs as brain heart. result is malaise high blood preassure. it it self can put straun on heart muscle and lead to heart failure. see md for sleep study and exam.
does difficulty breathing when lying down always mean heart failure? i'm 20 years old how likely is it for me to have heart failure? i am overweight.
i suggest with your symptoms and weight issue that you see a physician and have a sleep study to rule out obstructive sleep apnea. if you do not have a history of heart disease or diagnosis with an echocardiogram ekg and x-ray i suggest that chf would be much less likely.
does difficulty breathing when lying down always mean heart failure? i'm 20 years old how likely is it for me to have heart failure? i am overweight.
to put yourself at ease get tested by your physician or a referred cardiologist. it may be apnea related to your being overweight but check it out to be safe. good luck
for obese female with 1 heart failure what's better lisinopril or perindropil? there is research perindropil has less side effect & works better? true?
dear jerry34 i did a quick review of the literature and it seems that theoretically all "pril" drugs should help. however i found that perindopril have not been studied in heart failure patients. if you have a choice i would recommend enalapril because it has more data. il. if you only have those two choices lisinopril has been studied for hf. i hope this helps.
for someone with congestive heart failure due to high blood pressure and obesity (no plaque buildup) what's a healthy and safe rate to lose weight?
most weight loss in the first days after treatment of congestive heart failure is water weight and may result in several pounds per day. once your doctor determines you are at normal body water you can begin to lose fat weight and most recommendations limit this weight loss to 1-2 pounds per week to avoid vitamin and mineral deficiencies.
can you tell me what are contraindications of herceptin (trastuzumab)?
you can't have significant heart failure and receive herceptin (trastuzumab). herceptin (trastuzumab) can decrease the pumping strength of the heart. some patients who have had chemotherapy in the past have lost heart function and as a result should not receive herceptin (trastuzumab). a left ventricular ejection fraction of less than 40% is a contraindication. an allergy to herceptin (trastuzumab) is also a contraindication.
i have extra genetic mutations for breast cancer & heart failure what's the likelihood that these genes will turn on & can i use diet to keep them off?
recommendations on gene mutations are best given by a medical geneticist who needs a detailed understanding of the exact test that you had done and the detailed results. many gene mutations cause a loss of function so you don't necessarily want to turn off the mutated gene. modern genetics is discovering many genetic markers that convey only small risk of disease and may require no treatment.
could anybody tell me how edema/ lymphedema happens?
lymphedema and to some extent all edema occurs when the the ability of the lymphatics system to resorb fluid is overwhelmed. this occurs when there is an injury or compromise to the lymphatic system. this can occur from infection surgery trauma or cancer leading to scarring of the lymph system. it can also occur from obesity venous insufficiency or heart failure impairing the lymphatic return.
how can herceptin (trastuzumab) affect the heart?
it can cause weakening of the heart muscle and heart failure. read this for details about herceptin. <link>
can you tell me how herceptin (trastuzumab) affect the heart?
most commonly (though still very uncommon) it can cause heart failure - most often reversible upon holding the drug. it has been demonstrated to be safely readministered in many patients.
years ago lvh from adriamyacin. diagnosed with diastolic dysfunction. chest heaviness and shortness of breath now much worse is this heart failure?
this may be from congestive heart failure although the term does not mean that your heart is going to stop anytime soon. there are certainly ways to treat chf if that is what this is. you should be seeing your regular doctor and probably a cardiologist regularly at this point. good luck.
what are some of the risk factors for getting atrial fibrillation?
diabetes congestive heart failure valvular heart diseases coronary artery disease alcohol intoxication obesity abnormal heart rhythms high blood pressure overactive thyroid.
what medicine is good for atrial fibrillation and a slow heart beat?
upon what else is going on - what is your blood pressure how slow is the pulse does it ever go fast; do you have heart failure or sleep apnea. if your heart goes so slow it bothers you and there is nothing correctable the only solution is a pacemaker.
with heart failure is it possible to still have a normal blood pressure but if you feel your pulse it's weak?
yes and yes to both questions generally is impossible to gauge bp from the feel of a pulse especially by a lay person.
what is global hypokinesis with septal akinesia?
general grade of wall motion abnormality: normal>hypokinetic>akinetic>dyskinetic>aneurysmal global hypokinesis is overall decreased cardiac function. with akinesis the severity of injury results in the wall not moving at all. dyskinetic motion suggests even worse function and aneurysmal is complete loss of contractility. myocardial infarct and heart failure are the most common settings
what are the risks of atrial fibrillation?
some are: ypertension alcohol older age sleep apnea diabetes mellitus hyperthyroidism valvular heart disease heart failure conditions leading to chronic lung disease with pulmonary hypertension inflammatory conidtions acute illness especially postoperative state and infections (although the latter ones are more of triggers than causes).
my cardiologist thinks i've got atrial tachycardia seeing him in a week to confirm this i've had fast heart rate since july can it damage the heart?
any prolonged abnormal or "pathologic" rapid heart beat can damage the heart if not adequately treated. a continuous rapid heart rate of > 100 bpm for days or weeks on end can lead to heart failure eventually an entity known as tachycardia induced cardiomyopathy which usually resolves when the heart rate is controlled. short episodes of atrial tachycardia do not usually cause damage.
what is carvedilol?
good medicine to treat hypertension angina some arrhythmias and heart failure. well tolerated with very few side effects. as a general advise: this is the first question you need to ask the doctor who prescribed it and discuss all possible effects and side effects. reading or asking over internet is not as helpful.
what is carvedilol prescribed for?
heart failure-cardiomyopathy
what is carvedilol prescribed for?
carvedilol is a beta blocker drug which is used for hypertension heart failure and sometimes cardiac rhythm treatment.
my husband has cardiomyopathy how should we change is diet?
there is no specific dietary advice for cardiomyopathy. since cardiomyopathy is due to multiple causes the dietary advice will depend on the cause. the most common cause of cardiomyopathy is ischemic heart disease. if in a given case it is due to alcoholism absolute abstinence from alcohol is advised. if cardiomyopathy has resulted in heart failure the dietary advice is that for heart failure.
what to do if i have high heart rate congestive heart failure?
you need to be seen to determine why do you have fast heart rate. uncontrolled heart rate can tip you to heart failure exacerbation. make sure you go to your physician for an ekg.
what is the difference in nonischemic cardiomyopathy?
cardiomyopathy is weakness of the heart muscles sometimes leading to heart failure. can be ischemic cardiomyopathy which is due to narrowing of the blood vessels of your heart or can be non-ischemic which can be due to a variety of causes including hypertension viral infection or metabolic diseases (amyloidosis/sarcoidosis) among other things. hope this helps.
how can someone stop atrial fibrillation?
new onset atrial fibrillation is often self limited going away by itself. but the cause dictates the subsequent course. thus treating things like high blood pressure heart valve disease heart failure over active thyroid hormones coronary disease and avoiding alcohol may be important. some drugs are useful to maintain rate and rhythm. if needed electric shock (cardioversion) is effective.
what are the uses of electrocardiogram. does it can detect heart failure.?
heart failure is a clinical diagnosis - you have certain symptoms such as shortness of breath and easy fatigue-ability and if they are connected to abnormal heart function you may be diagnosed with heart failure. an ecg usually discloses underlying heart rhythm disturbances or the presence of coronary artery blockages though much more can be detected.
what are the uses of electrocardiogram. does it can detect heart failure.?
electrical activity in heart. . echocardiogram is more useful tool for heart function but heart failure is a clinical diagnosis & can be systolic or diastolic.
what are the uses of electrocardiogram. does it can detect heart failure.?
uses include detection of myocardial infarction pulmonary embolism cardiac murmurs or arrhythmias syncope evaluation assessment of systemic diseases & monitoring during anesthesia & in critically ill patients.
what is the relationship between dilated cardiomyopathy and fibromyalgia?
dilated cardiomyopathy leads to decrease pumping of blood to the brain and rest of the body. pt. usually get short of breath from mild to moderate physical exertion. may lead to congestive heart failure with activity limitations. fibromyalgia is a condition in which there is generalized pain in most areas of the body. depression lack of sleep stress may increase the pain.
what are the uses of metoprolol?
metoprolol is a beta blocker class of medicine and used for a wide variety of condtions. here's just a few 1 : high blood pressure 2: congestive heart failure (reduces progression of disease) 3: suppress abnormal rhythms (eg. atrial fibrillation 4: prevent heart attacks. there's more! seeing how many indications there are bet a blockers are quite important in managing cardio vascular disease.
what are the uses of metoprolol?
metoprolol lowers blood pressure by lowering heart rate. by doing so it reduces adverse vascular events like heart attack and stroke. it is also used in heart failure to prevent worsening of the heart muscle. it can also be used to control heart rate in patients who have abnormal heart rhythms such as atrial fibrillation.
why do patients who are on chronic digoxin therapy have both hypokalemia and digoxin toxicity?
digoxin by itself doesn't lead to hypokalemia (low potassium). dig is used for congestive heart failure traditionally; however there are many problems with dig toxicity especially in the elderly and there have been many deaths related to dig toxicity expecially is associated with hypokalemia which will be caused by diuretics. today dig is rarely used we have better drugs for chf.
what kind of damage can a high heart rate cause and how fast can damage start to occur?
temporary tachycardia ( hr > 110 bpm) is not dangerous; however if tachycardia persists for over 1-2 months one can start to develop a tachycardia induced cardiomyopathy (heart failure).
what patients should get an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (icd) for heart failure?
this is somewhat complex and will not all fit in 400 characters so i am creating initials. 1. ischemic cardiomyopathy i. c. with ejection fraction ef >30% but 30 days post mi/revascularization. 2. ic ef <30%. 3. ic ef between 36-40% with inducible ventricular fibrillation or tachycardia 4. non-ic with ef <35% and nyha class ii or greater.
why do i have shortness of breath while taking flecainide for an irregular heartbeat?
flecainide is used for irregular heartbeats. it can cause worsening of irregular heart beats as well especially if there is a history of a heart attack. such worsening could cause shortness of breath (sob). signs of heart failure may occur with too much flecainide in your system. the underlying irregular heart beat itself not flecainide could also cause sob. see your doctor for more info.
what patients need an implantable cardioverter defibrillator?
in addition to preventing dangerous ventricular arrhythmias (which can cause sudden cardiac death) in people who have had these in certain select cases cardioverter defibrillators have use for prevention of these heart rhythms in people who are at high risk for them. this can include certain cardiomyopathies also some cases of congestive heart failure (combined with a biventricular pacemaker).
what if you have congestive heart failure and a pacemaker?
ideally you have or will have a biventricular pacemaker. this type of pacemaker pm is designed for cardiac resynchronization therapy. it has 2 or 3 leads positioned to make the left ventricle contract at the same time - or in synchrony - as the right ventricle so that the heart beats in a more balanced way. this therapy has been known to reduce symptoms and improve quality of life for some pt.
what if you have congestive heart failure and a pacemaker?
certain types of pacemakers (called bi-ventricular or re-synchronization devices) are used to treat chf but a routine pacemaker (single lead or av sequential) neither causes nor treats chf.
what are the complication of myocardial infarction?
there are a range of possible complications. the heart is a muscle and can be weakened by a heart attack and lead to heart failure. the heart has a conduction system which can be damaged and can lead to arrhythmias and cardiac arrest. many people die from their heart attack while others have one and don't realize it. unfortunately about 1/2 of the time the first sign of heart disease is death.
what are the complication of myocardial infarction?
sudden death irregular heartbeats ventricular fibrillation. heart failure ruptured valve chordae or muscle ruptured heart ventricular aneurysm most are diagnosable and treatable these days.
which symptoms are associated with atrial fibrillation and flutter?
afib can cuase a variety of symptoms. palpatations or the feeling of the heart racing is common. pts may notice this at rest or with exercise. shortness of breathe also. if heart rate really fast may get dizzy. in extreme cases can get heart failure. pts without adequate blood thinning can have a stroke with afib also.
what causes heart damage or elevated troponin levels?
the heart muscle cells leak the enzyme troponin into the blood when they are damaged. this occurs commanly in a heart attack when a coronary artery supplying heart muscle is blocked and those downstream cells are damaged. it can also occur though usually to a much smaller degree in blood clots to the lungs heart failure fast abnormal heart rhythms and even pericarditis.
i have idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and a biventricular icd. the problem i am having is there are days i can't seem to stay awake. normal?
you seem to have congestive heart failure and are probably on several medications your symptoms may be from the medications from variations in your congestive heart failure status or inadequate effectiveness of your biventricular icd's resynchronization (the special pacing it does to improve your heart's function. see you docrotr.
i had breathlessness palpitation. in icu pulmonary edema found fixed by lasix (furosemide). lvef 38-45% hr 75-90 hdl 61 ldl 155 bp 130/80. do i need ct angiography or catheter angiography cardiac eps?
at this moment not enough info. pulm edema is a serious problem. most commonly from heart failure. but can happen from a severe chronic lung disease exacerbated. from volume overload in renal failure liver failure/cirrhosis severe acute lung injury from trauma pneumonia cancer etc. are you out of the hospital?
i take metaprolol and captapril for blood pressure and chf. it's it safe to take hawthorne?
3 medications that are proven to help strengthen the heart in "systolic" heart failure (i. e. weak heart muscle) are beta blocker ( like metoprolol) ace inhibitor ( like captopril) and spironolactone (if you are tolerate it). diuretics and digoxin are added for symptomatic relief. otc/herbal remedies like hawthorn have not undergone extensive randomized trials hence not recommended.
is it possible to have normal bnp and high c reactive protein in idcm and still have heart failure symptoms?
a normal bnp means that your left atrial pressure is low and but you can still have a low cardiac output and feel crummy from chf. high crp doesn't correlate with chf symptoms. also bnp is a range. bnp of <10 is very low but bnp of 100 is "normal" but may be too high for someone with idcm. also there is a lag time: the bnp can be rising when symptoms are present.
i had mi 3years ago on holliday and got sunburnt lower legs and ankles ankles have swollen mostly my right is this from sunburn or heart failure?
swelling can be caused by a severe sunburn but more likely this is due to heart related issues. i would make an appointment with my cardiologist.
i had mi 3years ago on holliday and got sunburnt lower legs and ankles ankles have swollen mostly my right is this from sunburn or heart failure?
swelling in one foot/leg is usually caused by something in your foot or leg; swelling in both feet/legs usually means fluid retention. in your case given your history it could be a combination. you gotta go see your md and get checked. it's important.
i had mi 3years ago on holliday and got sunburnt lower legs and ankles ankles have swollen mostly my right is this from sunburn or heart failure?
sunburn will cause edema of the tissues. with a hx of cad and mi you may need to get it checked out but it is common for excessive sun exposure to cause swelling. go get checked especially if you have any soa or wet cough.
is atrial tachycardia dangerous my cardiologist thinks i might have it had fast heart rate since july had several tests done!?
increase heart rates sustained even for a short period of time can cause heart failure.
i have dcm and bi vent pacemaker. is it possible that if i had too much salt i can have shortness of breath? within how many hours of eating?
by ventricular pacemaker can improve symptoms for up to 70% of people who receive one however it does not prevent heart failure from existing. if you eat too much salt your body will retain fluid the same way as any other heart failure patient. the effects are usually seen within 12 to 48 hours.
if you have hypertrophic cardiomyopathy can you get a transplant?
if you mean a heart transplant. the criteria would be more focused on the degree of heart failure which is life limiting.
is it blood pressure or the medicine that is causing excessive amounts of fluid on my legs? currently taking carvedilol clonidine and furosemide.
swelling of the legs can occur for a variety of reasons. someone on clonidine likely has had blood pressure that has been very difficult to control. this can stiffen or enlarge the heart & fluid can back up into the lungs or rest of body settling in the legs. congestive heart failure can do the same. lung diseases (eg. copd) can cause leg swelling. bad veins can. carvedilol and clonidine can too.
is digitalis used to cure abnormal heart rhythms?
digitalis has a long history of treating congestive heart failure by stimulating the heart muscle. i believe it is used in patients with heart failure but with a normal sinus rhythm.
i had a heart attack when i was younger will this contribute to me getting cardiomyopathy?
when you have a heart attack and your heart muscle is damaged your heart becomes less effective at meeting your body's demands for blood. this can become heart failure resulting in cardiomyopathy. also if the heart disease that caused the heart attack is not treated you can have other heart attacks without symptoms. all people who have had a heart attack should be followed by a cardiologist.
if i had a heart attack what is the likelihood that i will not survive?
survival likelihood depends on the extent of their heart attack and the health and age of the patient. one commonly used tools to calculate likelihood of dying considers age history of diabetes high blood pressure or angina evidence of heart failure severity of attack weight and timing of therapy. risk of dying within 30 days with mid-high score is 1-36%. after 30 days it's 1-17% for 1 yr.
i was diagnosed with cardiomyopathy what is the likelihood that i will have heart failure?
why do you have cardiomyopathy? it can be from a diseased heart due to lack of oxygen (blocked arteries) it can happen as a side affects of some drugs it can happen as the result of some type of infection even a cold type virus. so why it happened and how severe it is will help to determine the likelyhood or unlikelyhood of there being a progression to heart failure.
i was diagnosed with cardiomyopathy what is the likelihood that i will have heart failure?
this can be kept under controll with medicines and the current treatments that are available see your cardiologist and for further advises.
is there a way to treat heart arrhythmias and prevent heart failure?
there are many effective ways to treat heart arrhythmias and prevent consequences such as heart failure. the most common way is with medications such as beta blockers or other anti-arrhythmic medications. there are also procedures called ablations which treat the arrhythmia by interupting the electrical signals of the arrhythmia. a qualified cardiologist should be able to help.
is there a way to treat heart arrhythmias and prevent heart failure?
you need to discuss with the doc. as to what arythmia it is first atrial fib /flutter or ventricular arythmias.
is cardiomyopathy dangerous to have?
it depends on the cause and if there are reversible factors. if it is severe and/or progressive getting to a heart failure specialist is critical but any cardiomyopathy should have at least a full cardiology consultation to assess the possible treatment paths appropriate for the circumstances.
is atrial fibrillation a disability?
most patients with atrial fibrillation can still work. how ever it may get difficult to function normally if you get heart failure very fast heart rates cannot tolerate the medicines. blood thinners used in treatment for atrial fibrillation may also be a problem for people whose work involves a lot of trauma/injury because of the risk of bleeding.
is there a difference between alcoholic cardiomyopathy and congestive cardiomyopathy?
there are 2 major kinds of cardiomyopathy which literally means disease of heart muscle. one is obstructive (asymmetric septal hypertrophy or ash) and the other is congestive where heart muscle is weakened and fluid backs up into the lungs and body (congestive heart failure). alcohol is one kind of congestive cardiomyopathy - others are viral post-pregnancy and toxin-related.
is viral cardiomyopathy deadly?
viral cardiomyopathy can cause sudden death or more chronic progression to intractable heart failure. it is a serious disease.
if someone has cardiomyopathy as a result of amyloidosis and is now palliative can this stage bring renal failure?
amyloid proteins that deposit in the heart also can form in kidneys. in advanced heart disease there's usually amyloid in the kidneys as well and renal function can deteriorate. advanced cardiac amyloid also leads to congestive heart failure with inefficient ejection of blood from heart leading to reduced blood flow to kidneys. like other forms of heart failure this can cause renal failure.
is a rapid heart rate a symptom of congestive heart failure?
though patients that have a rapid heart rate for an extended period of time(weeks to months) without having symptoms can develop congestive heart failure to a weakened heart.
is a rapid heart rate a symptom of congestive heart failure?
although the heart rate increases to compensate for inadequate pumping by the heart there are many more common reasons for a rapid heart rate. common symptoms of heart failure are fluid retention and difficulty breathing (particularly when lying flat).
is a rapid heart rate a symptom of congestive heart failure?
this can be a possible symptom of heart damage or heart failure. i would get evaluated right away.
is it possible for a child/teen to have a heart attack?
children are at very low risk for heart disease and heart attacks. but if they have congenital heart disease they are at risk for other illness related to the heart such as heart failure.
i was recently put on coreg 3. 125mg about 2 weeks ago. almost immediately i began having swelling in my lower extremities. the swelling becomes much worse by the end of the day and i have numbness and pain in them. they did add hctz about week ago. should
i think you may be confusing the disease and the treatment. coreg (carvedilol) is treatment for congestive heart failure. the timing is coincidental. the way coreg (carvedilol) is used is to start at 3. 125 mg then go to 6. 25 then 12. 5 then 25 mg (all twice a day). the 3. 125 mg doesn't have any effect and wouldn't cause swelling. you didn't mention amlodipine but if you were put on that it typically causes swelling.
i was recently put on coreg 3. 125mg about 2 weeks ago. almost immediately i began having swelling in my lower extremities. the swelling becomes much worse by the end of the day and i have numbness and pain in them. they did add hctz about week ago. should
it sounds like you have dependent edema. this is generally the result of poor venous circulation. sometimes leg edema can be the sign of heart failure. if you have gained more than 5 pounds in the last few days or are having shortness of breath you may want to call your doctor today. if not it can probably wait until next week. i always tell patients if they are unsure they should call their doctor. better safe than sorry. ps: it is unlikely related to the coreg (carvedilol) but with any drug there is no 100 % guarentee.
irregular heartbeat i had a severe copd attack 2 weeks ago which i ended up in the hospital for 6 days two of which was in the icu on bipap and the other four i was on oxygen because my saturation level would not stay above 90%. yesterday i went to the
copd reduces the patient's ability to exhale resulting in wheezing and shortness of breath. severe copd can also cause low oxygen levels respiratory failure requiring bipap and oxygen heart failure and death.
i have a pacemaker. but i am having trouble breathing when i lay down. what could it be?
it may mean that you have congestive heart failure i. e. extrafluid build u p in your body with leg swelling. when you sleep flat the fluid creeps up to the lungs making you short of breath. if you have edema you will need to control salt and water and take your water pills. other options are lung disease like asthma emphysema or pneumonia. it is imperative to check with doctor before emergency.
i have been experiencing swelling in my legs and feet. my feet are turning purple and i have no pulse in my right foot. i am a type 1 diabetic with a history of c. h. f. hypertention high colesterol i have been experiencing heart palpatations for the pa
congestive heart failure may be causing your feet to swell. however there are other causes including kidney and liver problems certain medications incompetent veins in your legs lymphatic problems and infections such as cellulitis. if you have poor arterial circulation in your lower legs you will experience cramps in your calf muscles when walking which are relieved by rest. the swelling in your lower extremities may be making it difficult to feel a pulse. a doppler examination (ultrasound) of the arteries in your lower extremities will tell you if your arteries are obstructed. heart palpitations may be a sign of a rapid heart rate or an irregular heart rate. you should see your doctor for this problem. he or she may need to do an ekg or other cardiac and blood testing to determine the cause of the palpitations.
i have been to the er for a rapid heartbeat. sometimes it's diagnosed as sinus tachycardia and sometimes atrial fibrillation. i have tried cardyzeme and metopral without much success. what happens if i don't seek treatment next time?
atrial fibrillation can be a sign of underlying heart disease such as mitral valve disease or other conditions that can cause stretching of the atria â€” the upper chambers of the heart. a cardiologistâ€™s evaluation and an echocardiogram are often useful in ruling out some structural disease affecting your heart. if there is no structural heart disease then the principal risk of atrial fibrillation is that blood clots may form in areas of the heart that are not contracting and possibly travel through the bloodstream to cause a stroke. this risk of a stroke is increased if you are over 65 years old; if you have high blood pressure; if you are female; if you have had a prior stroke transient ischemic attack (or tia â€” a fleeting stroke) or other blood clot disorder; if you have diabetes; if you have heart failure; or if you have known vascular disease (heart attack aneurysm or limitation of blood flow to the legs). the more risk factors you have the higher your risk of a stroke. with one risk factor many physicians will recommend aspirin therapy or sometimes more potent blood thinners. with two or more risk factors blood thinners are usually recommended. this should be discussed in detail with your doctor.
im 27 and have a high bp can i have a heart attack? at my age?
it needs to be treated to avoid the long term consequences of stroke heart failure or kidney failure.
is it worth a trip to the doctor for skipped heart beat?
skipped heart beat affects practically everyone sometimes. if you're aware but not troubled most of the time there's no need to see a doctor. causes include caffeine stress lack of sleep electrolyte imbalance from diarrhea vomiting diet sweating etc. if you have a known heart disease (eg hx of heart attack or heart failure) it may be more serious and ought be evaluated.
i went to an online symptom checker. it said i might have hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy. what do doctors say are the most common symptoms?
some patients have no symptoms. the first symptom may be sudden collapse and possible death. others include chest pain fainting palpitations high blood pressure heart failure shortness of breath easy fatigue exercise intolerance.
i need a straight answer. what is restrictive cardiomyopathy?
restrictive cardiomyopathy is a disorder of cardiac muscle marked by impaired (diastolic) filling of the ventricle. cardiac output (the amount of blood pumped) falls. the syndrome of congestive heart failure marked by shortness of breath and fluid retention can result. the national library of medicine has a nice summary at: <link>
i suffer from heart failure enlarged heart and irregular heartbeat can i retire due to health?
that is more a legal question than medical question.
i suffer from heart failure enlarged heart and irregular heartbeat can i retire due to health?
you can retire any time you want to retire but if you want to claim disability you have to be objectively disabled. are you?
is atrial fibrillation a serious condition? my friend is 45 and has it.
atrial fibrillation increase the risk of stroke which can be disabling or fatal. strokes from af tend to be worse than non-af strokes. additionally if the af causes a fast pulse for a prolonged period of time this may lead to weakening of the heart and cause heart failure. a very fast pulse even for a short period can precipitate a heart attack in someone with underlying blocked arteries.
is a rapid heart rate one of the main symptoms of congestive heart failure?
rapid heart rate is definitely one of the constellation of symptoms of untreated heart failure. as the heart weakens the only mechanism for it to maintain its output is to increase the rate the feedback mechanisms in the body which dictate more cardiac output lead to the increased heart rate.
is a rapid heart rate one of the main symptoms of congestive heart failure?
a fast heart rate suggest decompensation and usually suggest either a low cardiac output ot high systemic resistance. a rapid heart rate can also signify high adrenergic state due to respiratory compromise.
is a rapid heart rate one of the main symptoms of congestive heart failure?
it may indicate the presence of congestive hert failure. however fast heart beat may lead to congestive heart failure itself by not giving heart eniugh time to pump sufficient blood and making heart muscles tired and weak by overworking them. fast heart beat must be evaluated by a physician to determine the cause and treatment if necessary.
i had a heart attack 5 years ago and i am 39 years old. is it ok to take cialis? i take plavix (clopidogrel) but no nitrates.
treatments for erectile dysfunction (ed) including cialis should not be used in men for whom sexual activity is inadvisable as a result of their underlying cardiovascular status. patients who experience symptoms upon initiation of sexual activity should be advised to refrain from further sexual activity and seek immediate medical attention. in other words be sure that your heart can keep up with other organs. pde5 inhibitors including cialis are mild systemic vasodilators. this means that blood vessel "pipes" can become wide open and drop your blood pressure. patients with left ventricular outflow obstruction (e. g. aortic stenosis and idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis) can be sensitive to the action of vasodilators including pde5 inhibitors. consult a cardiologist to evaluate your heart with an echocardiogram if any other physician has concern that you could have one of these above mentioned conditions. cialis was not studied and is not recommended in patients who have recently suffered a heart attack (within 90 days) or stroke (within 6 months) or patients with uncontrolled hypertension hypotension uncontrolled arrhythmias heart failure (new york heart assocation [nyha] â‰¥class 2 in last 6 months) unstable angina or angina occurring during sexual activity. this means that a patient should be refrain from using cialis until after a safe period of time has lapsed after a heart attack. potential drug interactions: cialis can potentiate the hypotensive effects (lowering of blood pressure) of alpha-blockers antihypertensives or substantial amounts of alcohol (â‰¥5 units). cialis is not recommended in combination with alpha-blockers for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph) symptoms because efficacy of the combination has not been adequately studied and due to the risk of blood pressure lowering. caution is advised when cialis is used as a treatment for ed in men taking alpha-blockers. cialis for once daily use provides continuous plasma tadalafil levels. therefore daily use of cialis must require daily attention to avoiding the above mentioned drugs that can interfere with blood pressure. pde5 inhibitors such as viagra cialis or levitra (vardenafil) are generally safe and effective if used wisely and with common sense.
if a person has hypertension (160-19<negative_smiley>75-91) shortness of breath and a fib is on metoprolol and coversyl 4 mg daily what else could you do?
the shortness of breath suggest the possibility of left sided heart failure (pulmonary edema). if this was the case then a diuretic medication that would reduce the fluid in the lungs and potentially reduce the high systolic blood pressure would be advised.
is prinivil (lisinopril) a betablocker?
prinivial is an ace inhibitor which is another form of blood pressure medicine. ace inhibitors are felt to have protective effects in patient s with kidney disease particularly diabetics. it is also effective in the treatment of patients with congestive heart failure.
is coreg (carvedilol) used more for blood pessure or heart conditions?
carvediol (coreg) is a 'beta-blocker' with 2 indications. carvedilol is used to treat congestive heart failure (chf)= (condition in which the heart cannot pump enough blood to all parts of the body) and high blood pressure. it is used to treat people whose hearts cannot pump blood well as a result of a heart attack. carvedilol is most often prescibed for heart failure (chf) --answer your question.
is the a difference between metoprolol succinate and metoprolol tartrate?
metoprolol succinate is an extended-release version dosed once daily meanwhile metoprolol tartrate is an immediate-release (short duration) version dosed twice daily for long-term management. both can treat hypertension and angina (chest pain) however succinate is also indicated for heart failure and tartrate can be used to treat an acute myocardial infarction (heart attack).
i had undergone an angioplasty and stent after i had a mild heart attack in aug 2007. why long should i feel low energy level.?
if the angioplasty and stenting were successful and it was truly a minor mi you should have your strength back by now. you may be de-conditioned or there is some degree of heart failure following the mi or another unrelated cause for your lack of energy. please follow up with your cardiologist!
is it safe to have heart arrhythmia and ride roller coasters with grandkids?
to advise that you need to know the patients condition cardiac specific condition and rhythm status and history. for a very benign thing like atrial premature beats and otherwise normal person sure if the patient wanted to do it. for a patient with heart failure and some arrhythmia. no. you need to talk to the patients doctor for guidance.
is a sinus tachycardia the same thing as supraventricular tachycardia?
depends on how fast or how slow the cause for the abnormal rate and whether or not it is causing any symptoms. both abnormally slow and fast heart beats can cause congestive heart failure and syncope (fainting). persistent fast heart beats can cause weakness of heart muscle referred to as tachycardia induced cardiomyopathy.
is a rapid heart rate one of the symptoms of congestive heart failure or coronary disease?
congestive heart failure may be associated with rapid heart beat but this is not the primary symptom. rapid heart beat is not usually a sign of coronary artery disease. rapid heart beat can also occur in otherwise normal hearts.
is a rapid heart rate one of the symptoms of congestive heart failure or coronary disease?
not necessarily.
i take ramipril 2. 5mg once a day and getting weird heart rate. what could it be?
it is not caused by ramipril. ramipril is an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibiter. it has no effect on heart rate or rhythm you are takind a very small dose probabely for heart failure you should see your cardiologist to find the cause of weird heart rate.
is there a benefit to metoprolol tartrate?
beta blockers have been shown to decrease mortality as compared to placebo in patients after heart attacks as well as improve life span in patients with heart failure and benefit to lowering blood pressure in patients with hypertension.
i had my son at age 39 and developed post partum cardiomyopathy bilat pneumonia and congestive heart failure and sepsis ef 15 in er 4 days after my son was born. could retained placenta have caused all this? baby 6 weeks early but perfect. i was pla
postpartum cardiomyopathy (ppcm) is heart failure secondary to left ventricular systolic dysfunction toward the end of pregnancy or in the months after delivery in the absence of any other cause of heart failure. ppcm is a diagnosis of exclusion. retained placenta is not a cause.
i had my son at age 39 and developed post partum cardiomyopathy bilat pneumonia and congestive heart failure and sepsis ef 15 in er 4 days after my son was born. could retained placenta have caused all this? baby 6 weeks early but perfect. i was pla
retained placenta is not the cause for peri- or post-partum cardiomyopathy. . it is believed to be an immune mediated process.
i have congestive heart failure and enlarged heart a pacemaker /defibrillator. i'm 26 years old. i was diagnosed six years ago. can i have another baby?
you need to discuss this with a cardiologist experienced with pregnancy issues as well as a high risk obstetrician. your answer is likely to be highly individualized.
i have congestive heart failure and enlarged heart a pacemaker /defibrillator. i'm 26 years old. i was diagnosed six years ago. can i have another baby?
important question that requires individualized attention from your cardiologist & high risk ob.
i've had several echos stress tests ekgs and mri. is that enough testing to find out if i have heart failure? i have pvcs tachy & new symp sob.
sounds like they have run you through the mill -- ok now it's time for your doctors to conclude --.
i've had several echos stress tests ekgs and mri. is that enough testing to find out if i have heart failure? i have pvcs tachy & new symp sob.
in general the tests done are sufficient if however the diagnosis is still in doubt other tests can be considered such as a blood test called a brain naturetic peptid cxr or cardiac catheterization. .
i've had several echos stress tests ekgs and mri. is that enough testing to find out if i have heart failure? i have pvcs tachy & new symp sob.
there are two types of heart failure systolic and diastolic. the echo alone is enough to exclude systolic failure and to make diastolic failure quite unlikely if the echo was done well and correctly interpreted. the gold standard test for diastolic heart failure is a catheterization to measure heart pressures directly but this may be overkill in your situation. your md will advise.
is svt and are pvcs dangerous to fetus?
depends on the rate and whether svt is sustained or not. if svt is sustained that can lead to fetal heart failure and hydrops. usually isolated pvc s do not cause serious problems except in rare cases.
i have had chest pains and chest pressure low heart rate(35-50) shortness of breath pain and numbness in left arm and a few times paleness.?
you may be having a heart attack or heart failure because of the low heart rate which may be a high-grade heart block in which case your heart can stop at any time. seek help immediately!
i have idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. after eating i have shortness of breath low blood pressure & fall asleep sitting up for 2 1/2 hrs. normal?
depends on how severe your cardiomyopathy is. high salt consumption could make the heart failure worse causing shortness of breath. eating too much food at a single setting might also cause some problems. this is a serious medical condition and you need to tell your cardiologist about this.
is a patient with a pulse of 44 and bp 190/100 at risk of heart attack. stroke?
higher for stroke and heart failure even with a healthy heart muscle.
i have ventricular tacharidia a defibulator hart failure and in the last year i have been haveing grandmal seizures is it realted 48yrs old?
patients who have heart disease may also have injury to the brain. during episodes of arrhythmia or heart failure there can be injury to the brain from emboli or inadequate blood flow. these can leave small scars in the brain that can then develop into seizure foci. this is actually a fairly common problem. appropriate management must include both heart and brain treatment.
is it ok to go into a hut tub if i have chronic afib?
all afib is not created equal. if your rate is well controlled with exercise and you have no history of heart failure or limiting coronary artery disease it seems reasonable to try but you should check with your doc first.
if a person has hypertrophic cardiomyopathy & the heart suddenly stops would a defibrillator get the heart started again? will they need transplant?
if the heart stops this is termed asystole and defibrillation (shock) is not used when heart is in asystole (no matter the condition). if the heart goes into an arrhythmia (abnormal rhythm) that causes critically low blood pressure then defibrillation can be used to possibly restart the heart. heart transplant is indicated for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with refractory heart failure.
i take digoxin for a/fib but am reading in one of my medical papers that this is not good for you. could someone please give me their opinion. ?
digoxin was a mainstay for years - a couple of problems have dropped its use: 1) if your kidney function suddenly drops toxic levels can develop quickly and cause severe rhythm and potassium problems 2) the doses needed for atrial fib don't play well with heart failure and increase chance of dying 3) it mostly helps control the resting rate with very little effect in the presence of activity.
is someone who is facing surgery for mitral valve prolapse and on beta blockers usually depressed and inactive?
mitral disease- leakage or mitral regurgitation can be very gradual until very serious or it can happen acutely with a cordal rupture etc! inmthe long course patients are fatigued and have heart failure and swelling. any heart ailment is depressing and more to some folks. get fixed and be better!
i was born with transposition of the great vessels. i've had 4 open. heart. surgeries. i take enalapril and carvedilol. do you think i qualify for ssi?
it depends on the functional status of your heart. if you had a mustard or senning operation your right ventricle is pumping to your systemic circulation. this un-natural stress on the right ventricle often leads to heart failure fatigue and poor exercise tolerance. if you have these issues you would likely qualify for ssi.
i had mi 6 weeks ago causing mod-severe lv heart failure and mild-moderate pulminary hypertension. what is the honest pronosis for this i am 57yr man?
it is too early to tell which is actually good news. with aggressive medical therapy people can recover quite a bit of function after a heart attack but not always. see your cardiologist and talk about what you can do to maximize your recovery. after 3 months of aggressive medical therapy you will have a better idea of your prognosis and a lot depends on how much function you recover.
i had mi 6 weeks ago causing mod-severe lv heart failure and mild-moderate pulminary hypertension. what is the honest pronosis for this i am 57yr man?
i think at this point you should get your echo repeated. heart function (ejection fraction)could improve few weeks after myocardial infarction and medical treatment.
i had an biventricular pace maker fitted 11 months ago. due to heart failure. but would like to know if thatwill stop me having another tia?
a biventricular pacemaker will synchronize your heart's contraction and may help with the heart's "push" it will prevent your heart from going too slow but will not prevent a stroke / tia.
i had an biventricular pace maker fitted 11 months ago. due to heart failure. but would like to know if thatwill stop me having another tia?
issue.
is it normal to suffer from depression when you have dilated cardiomyopathy/heart failure? not wanting to take more meds any suggestions?
it is not but understandable. you may want to consider seeking some professional help from a psychologist or psychiatrist. it may save your live!
is it normal to suffer from depression when you have dilated cardiomyopathy/heart failure? not wanting to take more meds any suggestions?
no it's not normal to be depressed with this condition or any other. temporary sadness can certainly be "normal" -- but "depressed" is a more chronic "stuck" condition that does not lift on its own. also psychotherapy can also be extremely helpful for depression. medications may or may not be needed. you could begin working with a good therapist first and see how things are with you.
i've just started a med called carvedilol. how long until i see results?
depends on why you are taking it. for slowing heart rate and lowering bp you may see results within a day but for heart failure or poor cardiac function then it may take a few weeks.
i've had hyperthyroidism for five years now. my latest ecg sinus tachycardia and slight left heart enlargement. what can i do or need to be aware of?
hyperthyroidism for extended time periods can produce both sinus tachycardia and hypertension. hypothyroid states typically cause slo heart rates but hypertension can also be seen. high bp can result in cardiac hypertrophy (lvh) that can show up as heart enlargement. over time this process can cause increased risk for arrhythmia/heart failure and needs to be monitored closely.
im 27 and i have svt. am i at risk of heart failure?
unlikely.
im 27 and i have svt. am i at risk of heart failure?
svt itself does not presage heart failure. if the svt is caused by a cardiomyopathy it could be associated with chf.
i have an irregular heartbeat will that cause complications when they remove my gallbladder since i have stones?
irregular heart rhythm does not increase the risk of surgery as long as you do not have heart failure. if you are on a blood thinner it will need to be suspended for 5 days. gall bladder surgery done by laparoscopy is a low risk surgery and is generally safe even for people with more significant heart disease than you. good luck with surgery!
is there any link between the use of smokeless tobacco and low potassium levels? and what are the effects of low potassium?
there is apparently no known link or major study linking smokeless tobacco with hypokalemia. the major consequence of hypokalemia is cardiac arrhythmia both ventricular and atrial. this can interfere with heart function and may result in heart failure.
i would like to find out why you can get diarrhea with cardiac problems like braycardia?
could be drug induce or a decreased blood flow to the intestine creating transient ischemic bowel if you have heart failure. bradycardia only without any other symptoms or complication it's a rare cause of diarrhea and association can be coincidental. consult your doctor for a better assessment by a good history and physical exam.
it feels like someone is standing on my chest short of breath + irregular heart beat with my history what do u think?
should get evaluated to r/o another episode of pulmonary embolism and possibly angina and congestive heart failure. are you taking your coumadin (warfarin)? are you therapeutic in your inr? do you have an inferior vena cava filter placed in the past?
is it normal with idiopathic dcm and a bi vent icd to have pain or pressure in your chest with walking? i stopped and rested took bp-normal hr-95.
it is never normal. however it can be expected during exacerbations of congestive heart failure when the pressure inside the heart rises one can feel difficulty with breathing or chest tightness.
i had a doppler echo show an e/a ratio of. 78 suggesting impaired left ventrical relaxation. stress test and ecg and ct were normal. is this serious?
it is a type of heart failure it is usually not serious if you do not have any symptoms. however some people have severe short of breath even with just relaxation impairment.
i have hypertension (160/110) since i was 15 never measured till that. also doubled kidney. heart palpitation. doctors can't tell exact reason.
160/ 110 is quite high bp. you mention your renin level is high. high renin increases angiotensin & bp. it can be high for many reasons liver problem heart failure addison's disease kidney disease( you already have double kidneys). mostly the primary causes of hypertension are unknown. the secondary causes are few. you may want to see a nephrologist associated with research center. good luck.
i have leaky heart valves and afib. is this combination more dangerous?
on severity of regurgitation. . the more severe the greater the potential problems like risk for heart failure.
i have leaky heart valves and afib. is this combination more dangerous?
it is a combination that can lead to heart failure if the afib gets fast or if there are other challenges to the heart and valves.
is intraventricular conduction delay ecg serious?
intraventricular conduction delay (ivcd) refers to a condition in which electrical conduction through the heart muscle is delayed or slowed. it can be seen in a variety of disorders such as myocarditis cardiomyopathy ventricular fibrosis heart failure a high potassium level and following a heart attack. mild ivcd can be seen in normal healthy people as well. check with your doctor.
is it possible a viral infection (coxsackie) in dec 2012 could be cause of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy diagnsd in june 2013? is it reversible?
viral infection of the heart is relatively common and usually of little consequence. it can however lead to substantial cardiac damage and severe acute heart failure. it can also evolve into the progressive syndrome of chronic heart failure. studies have indicated that viral infections can precepitate cardiomyopathy. it may be reversable with aggresive treatment. take care.
what are other reasons other than heart attack for increased level of troponin?
abnormal values have been described in non-coronary conditions like myocarditis pulmonary embolism acute heart failure septic shock and as a result of cardiotoxic drugs as well as after therapeutic procedures like coronary angioplasty electrophysiological ablations or electrical cardioversions. it's also frequently seen in dialysis or severe kidney disease patients.
what are the effects of atrial fibrillation?
it increases the risk of stroke which can be disabling or fatal. additionally if the af causes a fast pulse for a prolonged period of time this may lead to weakening of the heart and cause heart failure. as far as symptoms it may cause palpitations shortness of breath chest pain syncope fatigue and sometimes none: some people are asymptomatic.
what is the common cause of restrictive cardiomyopathy?
by far the most common cause is deposition of amyloid protein in the heart. restrictive physiology is the end-stage result of most other types of heart failure as well but we don't call that a restrictive cardiomyopathy.
what happens if a pregnant woman has viral cardiomyopathy?
this can be quite serious. she should see a maternal fetal medicine specialist as well as cardiologist who specializes in heart failure.
what parts of the body does dilated cardiomyopathy affect?
dilated means enlarged or stretched out. cardio= relating to heart myo= muscle pathy= disease or weakening. so dilated cardiomyopathy is an enlarged heart with weak muscle. although only the heart muscle is weak it can affect every part of the body if the delivery of blood is diminished as in congestive heart failure.
what is the difference between heart attack and heart failure?
heart attacks are almost always caused by a blockage in one of the arteries that supplies the heart. this stops the flow of blood (and oxygen) to that area of the heart and eventually the involved area of muscle dies. heart failure is most often the result of several small or one large heart attack that affects enough muscle to keep the heart from being able to pump blood effectively.
what is the difference between heart attack and heart failure?
heart attack is basically a lack of blood flow to the heart muscle which if prolonged results in death of the heart muscle. heart failure is an abnormal pump funtion of the heart. where the heart in general doesn't pump blood out of the main chamber to the rest of the body therefore the name heart failure.
what are the risks if i don't treat supraventricular tachycardia?
as we get older the risks of a heart attack (myocardial infarction) increase from the demand that svt may place on an aging heart. in an otherwise healthy heart the risk of dying from svt is present but very low. untreated svt can lead to acute heart failure symptoms during the episodes. svt episodes that persist more than a couple days can lead to weakening of the heart muscle.
what are the causes of supraventricular tachycardia?
hardening of the arteries heart failure thyroid disease pneumonia chronic lung disease pulmonary embolism pericarditis stress substance abuse smoking and/or too much caffeine could all cause supraventricular tachycardia.
what is atrial fibrillation? is it serious?
atrial fibrillation is a very common arrhythmia often unclear in origin but usually due to enlarged upper heart chambers (atria). high blood pressure heart valve problems heart failure hyperthyroidism coronary disease alcohol or even spontaneous in normal people. some drop in energy may be noted but one can live normally with it. blood thinners to minimize strokes important if persists.
what treatments are available for bundle branch block?
most bbb do not require any sort of treatment. rarely lbbb associated with low ejection fraction and congestive heart failure benefits from a special type of pacemaker a biventricular pacer.
what are the risks of riding roller coasters for a person with pacemaker?
it depends on the patients overall condition. a pacemaker itself is just a device. if the patients condition such as heart failure makes the roller coaster a bad risk that is what the limit is. ask the treating doctor but would not hop on the ride without that.
what is the most common complication of early myocardial infarction?
the most common complication is arrhythmia which can occur very early in mi. if it's ventricular fibrillation as it tends to be in about 50% of cases the result is sudden death. heart block and atrial fibrillation also occur. other common complications are recurrent pain and congestive heart failure. less common is thromboembolism (systemic and pulmonary) causing stroke or pe and pericarditis.
what are the benefits of having a pacemaker?
preventing problems from very low heart beat such as heart failure passing out and in extreme cases cardiac arrest. also symptoms such as fatigue and shortness of breath from low heart beat may improve. sometimes it is used when medications treating fast heart beats also causes very slow heart beat. a special resynchronization pacemaker with three leads may be used to treat heart failure.
who is at risk for atrial fibrillation?
as per epocrates: cad (coronary disease) hypertension heart failure valvular disease pericardial and pleural diseases diabetes thyroid disorders disorders of the lung and advanced age are known risk factors for the development of acute af. however af may occur in the absence of any underlying cardiac or noncardiac diseases for example as a result of heavy alcohol intake.
i have high bp and non ischemic cardiomyopathy. lately my heart rate has been from the 80's to 120's. y bp has been dropping in the 50's/40's concerns?
that level of hypotension (low blood pressure) is serious both as an indication of severe disease and as a risk for damage to various organs dependent on blood flow. i would be worried that you are not on the right set of heart failure medicines or not on the right doses. certainly you should be re-evaluated without any significant delay. at a minimum talk to your heart failure specialist.
what occurs when someone has a left bundle branch block?
may be nothing -- but it is known to relate to cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure.
what does cardiomyopathy lead to in the future?
fraction remains low there is increased risk for heart failure arrhythmia and sudden death (ef< 35%).
what does cardiomyopathy lead to in the future?
heart failure increased risk for heart ryhtm problems malignant arrythmias and sudden cardiac death.
what are some of the advantages of pacemakers?
pacemaker ensure that the heart rate does not fall below a minimum programmed value. dual chamber pacemakers restore the coordination (known as atrioventricular synchrony) between the upper and lower chambers of the heart. pacemakers can also function in a limited capacity as monitors of heart rate rhythm and in some cases estimate the degree of heart failure.
what is atrial fibrillation a symptom of?
atrial fibrillation is an irregular rhythm in which the atria beat at nearly 400 beats/min. it is common in older patients as a reflection of aging of the conduction system. in younger patients it can be caused by alcohol and drug abuse. it can also occur when the heart dilates as in congestive heart failure. the abnormal contractions put patients at risk for blood clots which may cause strokes.
i've noticed yesterday that i've mitral valve prolapse. can it cause heart palpitation and anxiety? are b complex injections derogatoty for it?
for the majority of people mitral valve prolapse is a variation of normal. there is a spectrum and some people have a more severe form. when present this leads to mitral regurgitation (leakage) a loud murmur and over many years can lead to heart failure-then the valve must be repaired. b vitamins with neither help nor harm you. palps and anxiety are common and not related.
is it normal for a person with congestive heart failure to have a heart rate of 122?
in congestive heart failure there is activation of the sympathetic nervous system which is a contributor to tachycardia. the reflexes that lead to this are complex. simplistically though this is a sign that you need additional therapy. outcomes are best in people who are on beta-blockers typically carvedilol or metoprolol which have the additional affect of slowing heart rate.
is it normal for a person with congestive heart failure to have a heart rate of 122?
but not normal the heart is struggling.
what risks are attributed to bradycardia or tachycardia left untreated?
the risk of bradycardia is typically dizziness or passing out. on occasion bradycardia can chest pain or heart failure. tachycardia can chest pain shortness of breath dizziness lightheadedness stroke and passing out. certain types of tachycardia are dangerous and can cause sudden death.
what type of doctor would treat dilated cardiomyopathy?
make sure you find one who specializes in the treatment of heart failure; usually at an academic center and if it is really severe someone affiliated with a transplant center.
what is the prognosis for people with restrictive cardiomyopathy?
there are several causes of restrictive cardiomyopathy so the prognosis is variable but is typically limited due to progression of heart failure and potential for heart rhythm problems. depending on the cause there are certain medications and other therapies available. some people may be able to pursue heart transplantation depending on the cause.
what is worse: ventricular fibrillation or atrial fibrillation?
vf is worse; it usually causes cardiac arrest which is often fatal. atrial fibrillation while not as severe also has significant health risks. it increases the risk of stroke which can be disabling or fatal. additionally if the af causes a fast pulse for a prolonged period of time this may lead to weakening of the heart and cause heart failure.
what arrhythmia medications cause edema?
edema or swelling of the feet may be caused by many things including venous insufficiency obesity heart failure and medication. the type of medicines used for rhythm disturbances which cause edema are the calcium channel blockers. the most common is diltiazem (cardizem diltia). there are other alternatives to this type of medication and you should talk to your doctor.
i suffer from panic attacks. have been to er many times fearing heart attack only to be told i am fine. now suffering left arm pain. is this cardiac?
you probably have been worked up several times and found that even the risk of heart attack in you is low. an arm pain associated with heart attack will not last so long such as days or even hours without having completed a heart attack and the sequelae such as congestive heart failure would have occurred. still go to your pmd as reassurance is best if they can review you have been worked up.
is a 9 sec episode of afib something to be concerned about? already have idiopathic dcm and bivent and struggle with chf symptoms. i am 52.
atrial fibrillation can relate to strokes heart failure embolism. so it should be controlled eliminated or anticoagulation therapy. brief may be lower risk than prolonged but still not ideal!
what treatment/comfort is available for end stage chf? having trouble breathing; has to stand most of time to breathe. 13% ejection fraction from recent heart attack due to collapsed stent. . . history of coronary artery disease since 1990
there are many treatments for heart failure. if you cannot lie down you need immediate treatment. call your heart doctor now or go to the er.
when should i be concerned of rapid heart rate? experiencing rapid heart rate for several months
the medical term for a rapid heart rhythm is tachycardia. there are many different types of tachycardias and their clinical importance depends on several key factors with heart rate being only one of those. other important variable include the type of tachycardia patientâ€™s age other associated health problems etc. for example while two people may have the same â€˜heart rateâ€™ (say 175 â€˜beats per minutesâ€™ or bpm) the prognosis is very different in a young health person who reaches that rate only while running a marathon on a hot day (sinus tachycardia or normal fast heart rhythm) than in a heart attack survivor with a history of heart failure who has just been resuscitated from an out of hospital cardiac arrest secondary to ventricular tachycardia (a life threatening from the bottom chambers of the heart). other common tachycardias include atrial fibrillation and paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (psvt). while both of these tachycardias involve the upper chambers of the heart only atrial fibrillation is associated with an increased risk of strokes. in most patients with atrial fibrillation their stroke risk can be decreased with the use of blood thinners such as warfarin. among patients with tachycardias symptoms can range from nothing to palpitations shortness of breath and passing out to death. while most abnormal heart rhythms can be diagnosed and treated by well-trained primary care physicians cardiac electrophysiologists (cardiologists specialized in rhythm disturbances) are the experts in this area.
what does an elevated bnp mean?
:blood natriuretic peptide. this is a substance hormone-like created in the heart that gets elevated in congestive heart failure and during heart attacks. it is used in conjunction with the clinical signs to monitor pts with congestive heart failure. higher-than-normal results suggest that a person is in heart failure and the level of bnp or nt-probnp in the blood is related to the severity.
in 2003 diagnosed dcm. ef 20% i got better. 2011 ef back to 20%. got bivent in 2011. 2013 ef is 60 but i still have hf symptoms. i am 52. confused?
your heart has to pump (obviously). the ef measures how strongly it's able to do that. but it also has to fill. the ability to fill easily and fully is determined by diastolic function and ef doesn't measure that. you have compensated heart failure. you're improved but not back to normal. be sure your medications are optimized ; then work on improving your physical fitness to optimize your sx.
what are the most common symptoms of beta blocker overdose?
airways and lungs breathing trouble no breathing wheezing (in people who have asthma) eyes ears nose and throat blurred vision double vision heart and blood irregular heartbeat lightheadedness low blood pressure heartbeat - rapid or slow heart failure shock nervous system coma confusion convulsions drowsiness excessive sweating fever nervousness weakness please call 911
which treatment works the best and fastest for rheumatic fever?
rheumatic fever is an autoimmune process (antibodies attack our own tissues) that follows infection with streptococci. symptoms include heart murmur and possibly heart failure arthritis nodules under the skin chorea (abnormal involuntary movements) and rash. treatment consists of penicillin aspirin and prednisone. preventive penicillin is given for 10 years to prevent recurrence.
with broken heart syndrome what else should i be looking for?
broken heart syndrome is more common in women and in diabetics. while most people recover the heart function with time occasional fatalities can occur from arrhythmias and severe heart failure. it is important to be monitored in the hospital in the initial stages take medications prescribed regularly and have a follow up echo to look for improvement of heart pump function.
what is the life expectancy for cardiomyopathy?
depends on the degree of heart failure which surprisingly is not always directly related to the weakness of the pump which is measured as ejection fraction. neurohormonal activation which is basically chemical response to a weak pump plays a larger role in the outcome. many useful medications interrupt different steps in this chemical response and improve heart failure and life expectancy.
what causes atrial fib?
there are many factors that can lead to atrial fibrillation. common predisposing conditions include hypertension heart failure sleep apnea and genetic predisposition.
what risks are attributed to untreated bradycardia or tachycardia?
heart rate & rhythm combine to determine cardiac output or in common terms the pumping ability of the heart. good cardiac function & pumping ability in a normal heart can decrease with slow or fast heart rates. usually low rates protect the heart but limit cardiac output = exercise tolerance is decreased. sustained high rates = heart damage & heart failure. sick heart? all bets are off. dr. m.
what effect could hypokalemia have on the heart?
1. you will die if too low due to irregular heart beats or stopping. 2. you will notice irregular heart beats. 3. you may develop heart failure. find out the cause and correct it. this is all i do. consult with me if your team is not getting to the cause of the problem. should take no more than 2 weeks to figure it out.
is it safe to take ibuprofen with metoprolol lisinopril hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) and klor-con 10?
however taking an nsaid such as ibuprofen for a prolonged period can cause salt retention hypertension heart failure and stomach ulcers.
what's difference between olmesartan and valsartan?
they both are arb s both are indicated for hypertension but valsartan is also indicated for congestive heart failure.
what are the symptoms of dilated cardiomyopathy?
some patients may be asymptomatic but others have symptoms that range from exertional fatigue to overt anginal chest pain to exertional shortness of breath to overt heart failure with severe shortness of breath on low levels of exertion. the extreme involves syncope from near fatal or fatal ventricular arrhythmias to fatal or non-fatal myocardial infarction (heart attack).
what are the symptoms of rheumatic heart disease?
rhd causes thickening and blockage (stenosis) of the mitral valve which can lead to congestive heart failure (shortness of breath swelling fatigue). in addition the left atrium enlarges which often interferes with conduction of electrical impulses resulting in atrial fibrillation. without treatment blood clots can form in the enlarged and stagnant left atrium leading to stroke.
what is the difference between metoprolol succinate and metoprolol tartrate?
metoprolol succinate is an extended-release version dosed once daily meanwhile metoprolol tartrate is an immediate-release (short duration) version dosed twice daily for long-term management. both can treat hypertension and angina (chest pain) however succinate is also indicated for heart failure and tartrate can be used to treat an acute myocardial infarction (heart attack).
i had 2 ekg & 2 blood & 1 xray work done 2 different times. im very short of breath when i lay down would those test show heart failure or enlargment?
an ekg can demonstrate heart rhythm and enlargement of the heart chambers but cannot detect congestive heart failure. an echocardiogram will show the status of the heart muscle strength or weakness as well as size of the chambers and status of the heart valves. a chest xray will show more advanced heart failure. your md has this information and can advise you best.
i had 2 ekg & 2 blood & 1 xray work done 2 different times. im very short of breath when i lay down would those test show heart failure or enlargment?
please discuss the test results with your doctor and he/she may be in better position to tell you the correct answer. with the information you provided i will have to take a guess which will be a wrong choice. good luck!
what is the treatment for hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy?
the treatment for hcm is based on symptoms and degree of hypertrophy. hcm causes obstruction of outflow of blood from the heart potentially life-threatening arrhythmias and heart failure. medical treatments include beta blockers and anti-arrhythmic meds. surgery involves removal of muscle tissue (myectomy); placement of an aicd; alcohol ablation. follow up with you cardiologist!
what are the symptoms and tests for diastolic heart failure? my ekg is irregular echo seemed okay i was told i have a sinus tach from a reg place.
hello again undiagnosed1! diastolic heart failure is present when heart failure is confirmed (by symptoms chest x-ray and sometimes b-natriuretic peptide measurement (bnp)) in the presence of normal systolic function (ejection fraction>55%). sinus tach is a regular rhythm so if your ekg is irregular you have something else or in addition to sinus tach.
what are the major symptoms of dilated cardiomyopathy?
symptoms vary depending upon the degree of heart failure. some patients with a dilated cardiomyopathy may have minimal symptoms while heart function is preserved. once heart function worsens patients may experience shortness of breath palpitations (feeling like heart is racing or skipping beats) trouble lying flat fatigue passing out or nearly passing out to name a few.
what are the symptoms of hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy?
some patients may be asymptomatic but others have symptoms that range from exertional fatigue to overt anginal chest pain to exertional shortness of breath to overt heart failure with severe shortness of breath on low levels of exertion. the extreme involves syncope from near fatal or fatal ventricular arrhythmias to fatal or non-fatal myocardial infarction (heart attack).
what is the widowmaker heart attack survival rate?
that depends on how much muscle is damaged. if 40% or more of the heart muscle is damaged the mortality is greater than 50% from heart failure. but that assumes the person gets past the first eight hours during death rate is as high as 25% from arrhythmias.
what are the effects of digitek (digoxin)?
digitek (digoxin) is a type of digitalis medication that is used mainly for cardiac conditions especially to strengthen the heart in heart failure situations. it has many effects.
what is the life expectancy of person with pacemaker due to heart block?
pacers simply replace the electrical system in the heart but do not shorten life expectancy. other heart issues like significant coronary/valve disease or congestive heart failure are the main heart issues that affect life expectancy. if placed for slow heart rates (sick sinus syndrome) or heart block then no specific reduction in life expectancy is noted.
what's the difference between metoprolol succinate and metoprolol tart?
metoprolol succinate is an extended-release version dosed once daily meanwhile metoprolol tartrate is an immediate-release (short duration) version dosed twice daily for long-term management. both can treat hypertension and angina (chest pain) however succinate is also indicated for heart failure and tartrate can be used to treat an acute myocardial infarction (heart attack).
why is lanoxin (digoxin) prescribed to patients with pneumonia?
lanoxin is the brand name for digoxin or digitalis which is a medication with a long history of use to treat heart failure and abnormal heart rhythms. it is not always necessary in pneumonia; it is given to treat heart problems that can sometimes accompany pneumonia especially in elderly patients.
is vildaglipten safe drug for dialated cardiomyopathy patients?
research shows that vildaglipten is safe to use in cardiomyopathy and heart failure.
what is the treatment for viral cardiomyopathy?
difficult to treat as is often found after the primary insult. what is treated is the heart failure itself. this is treated with medications that improve hemodynamics heart rate volume status and so on.
what are the differences between alcoholic cardiomyopathy and congestive cardiomyopathy?
an alcoholic cardiomyopathy is a specific type of cardiomyopathy that can cause heart failure.
what are the risks of untreated bradycardia or tachycardia?
depends on how fast or how slow the cause for the abnormal rate and whether or not it is causing any symptoms. both abnormally slow and fast heart beats can cause congestive heart failure and syncope (fainting). persistent fast heart beats can cause weakness of heart muscle referred to as tachycardia induced cardiomyopathy.
i am 61 yrs. old. i've recently gone from irbbb to complete rbbb. how much greater is my risk of heart attack or failure?
rbbb is a common finding having no bearing on one's risk for developing a heart attack or congestive heart failure. the "block" refers to an electrical not a vascular block and the heart is in most cases easily able to reroute the electrical stimulus down another pathway.
what is the treatment for congenital dilated cardiomyopathy?
in mild cases treatment may not be needed. heart medicines are used to control symptoms of congestive heart failure and to preserve or improve heart function. blood thinners may be used to prevent clots from forming within the heart. rapid heart rhythms are treated by heart medicines and if life-threatening implanted cardioverter-defibrillator or pacemakers are used. transplant is last resort.
what can cause a rapid heart beat?
tachycardia can be physiological or pathological. exercise caffiene can increase heart rate. meanwhile diseases of the heart like atrial fibrillation supraventricular tachycardia congestive heart failure ventricular tachycardia can cause heart to speed up.
what medicine do they inject into your heart to slow down svt?
medicines that slow down or terminate svt are not injected directly into the heart muscle; however some types of medicines that healthcare personnel may inject into your veins to travel to the heart muscle include adenosine beta-blockers calcium channel blockers digitalis anti-arrhythmic drugs and now a recently approved medicine indicated for heart failure called ivabradine.
why do i get an occasional rapid heart beat when drinking?
alcohol is known to have vasodilator properties as a reflex the heart rate can go up transiently. but if you have been drinking for quite sometime it damages the heart muscle you will end up in congestive heart failure and that can also increase the heart rate.
what are the problems/risks of a fast heart rate for your heart?
in adults: heart rates of 90-110 are harmless and may be appropriate depending on circumstances. persistent hr of >120 can cause weakened heart muscle leading to heart failure ("tachycardia mediated cardiomyopathy"). hr >150 often causes dizziness and breathlessness. hr >200 often causes dizziness or passing out. hr> 250 causes shock and leads to death. none of this applies to infants/children.
i have polymyositis been having heart palpitation went to er they did ecg and basic blood pnl its fine would poly. show up if it had moved to my heart?
polymyositis is an autoimmune cvd-inflammation of muscles. it may lead to myocarditis (heart muscle) which in turn can cause heart failure and heart arrhythmias. u need an echocardiogram and then maybe holter/stress ett. also have ur thyroid checked.
i get sob walking up steps or slight hill and now i also get a headache. i also have been getting awakened by fast heart rate.
new shortness of breath with mild exertion and awakening with rapid pulse are not normal and need evaluation. possibilities include anemia heart failure heart rhythm disturbance. please see a doctor.
i have myocarditis from rhuematic fever. i've developed arrhythmias and severe chest pain. what medication can help? what can i expect from doctor?
lifestyle changes such as consuming a low-salt diet and not drinking alcohol may help in the management of myocarditis. antibiotics help treat the bacterial infection causing myocarditis. corticosteroid drugs may be prescribed to reduce inflammation of the heart wall. specific medications to control arrhythmias and heart failure should be discussed with a cardiologist.
would you give beta blockers to a patient with heart failure?
beta-blockers have been proven to prolong survival when given in low doses to patients with systolic heart failure.
i've been to er for ecg and doctor. 6 weeks after intravascular inject of lido/epi at dentist i still have shortness of breath. what could this be?
it could be many things such as anxiety asthma heart failure silent mi etc. the lidocaine and epinephrine is very safe when injected properly. if you still have sob you should definitely see a cardiologist rather than going to er.
in march i started getting short of breath had xray ekg cat scan ultra sound of heart now i have all symptoms of heart failure could they missed it?
heart failure usually occurs slowly but can be precipitous. understanding what the etiology causing the failure helps to understand best routes to evaluate and teat it. your heart failure could be easily missed especially at your age. talk to your doctors to understand what happened in your case. physicians practice to help patients and to ensure they understand what is going on.
in march i started getting short of breath had xray ekg cat scan ultra sound of heart now i have all symptoms of heart failure could they missed it?
or breathlessness can be caused by many factors. 22 year olds very rarely have heart failure especially after negative cardiac workup you should follow up with your doctor to look for the cause in you.
i had a xray that showed upper normal limit size heart but my bnp results was normal showing no heart failure. is this good sign ppcm is getting bette
chest x-ray is not particularly great at assessing heart size (echo is better). so if you are asymptomatic and only shows the upper normal limit of heart size on xr i'd say don't worry about it. different if you have symptoms though.
why have beta blockers gone in and out of favor for treatment of heart conditions?
beta blockers are the backbone of therapy in coronary artery disease and heart failure. thy are however not first line therapy for high blood pressure.
what is the? difference between restrictive cardiomyopathy and constrictive pericarditis?
restrictive cardiomyopathy involves the heart itself becoming stiff and not filling properly which eventually can cause heart failure and need a transplant to treat. constrictive pericarditis affects the sac around the heart entrapping the heart and causing similar symptoms but may be treated if needed by removing the sac from around the heart by surgery
what is hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy?
obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a genetic disorder that is one of the leading causes of sudden cardiac death in young people particularly athletes. it is quite rare but can be devastating in its ability to produce fatal arrhythmias. it is also a serious cause of heart failure due to decreased blood flow through the aortic valve to due obstruction of flow by the ventricular septum.
what can i do if i suffer from extreme edema caused by congestive heart failure after mi?
should be enrolled in a heart failure program were they have access to ventricular assist devices as a bridge to transplant or as destination therapy.
is rightward axis and borderline ecg bad? arrhythmias for years 22 y old female asthma sleep eat well stressed tired could i have heartfailure?
based on the limited information it is unlikely that you have heart failure per se. however the arrhythmias asthma difficulty breathing weakness and borderline ekg needs medical further evaluation. please do seek medical evaluation as there are serious possibilities including blood clots in the lungs.
i want to know about side effects of carvedilol and if it can produce gastritis.
carvedilol is reserved for congestive heart failure -- so it's probably not for you
what does breathlessness on lying down indicate in a known cardiac patient taking beta blockers and diuretics?
in pts with weak hearts and in congestive heart failure lying flat can cause shortness of breathe. this is called orthopnea. some pts wake up from the sleep short of breathe as well. this is called paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea or pnd. you need to see your doctor for a chest xray and blood. check your weight to see if you have had a sudden unexpected jump in your weight. if so its probably water wt.
what is lanoxin (digoxin) used for?
lanoxin (digoxin) is used in treatment of heart failure & atrial fibrillation.
what is lanoxin (digoxin) used for?
there are two major indications for lanoxin (digoxin ) to regular heart beat and to treat congestion in congestive heart failure it is often an additive to other medications rather than a stand alone medication.
wole up in middle of night struggling to breathe. couldnt catch my breath for a min or so. what could it be? i habe a history of pvcs.
could be obstructive sleep apnea anxiety ( you seem to have a history of pvc's) or heart failure. really need more symptoms to figure this out.
if someone dies of heart failure any type of heart failure will there be a rise in troponin levels?
troponin i is a marker for acute ischemia of heart. however we also see it in patients with kidney failure. so it will not be prudent to say that if troponin i are elevated that specific for heart failure. as heart failure can be due ischemic or non ischemic causes.
if someone dies of heart failure any type of heart failure will there be a rise in troponin levels?
troponin means damage to the heart muscle. in failure brain naturetic peptide goes up(bnp) and that is what is chemically followed
is it safe to take cialis if you have svt?
among other cardiac contraindications such as chest pain heart failure cardiomyopathy and ventricular dysfunction there is also warning about "life threatening arrhythmias". whether svt falls under category or not needs to be clarified by your cardiologist. as a precaution i will advise do not take cialis without consulting cardiologist first.
is a blood pressure 141/86 with a pulse of 76 bad? i'm diabetic and feeling palpitations also. how can i differentiate heart vs. anxiety?
hi. unless you have kidney disease or heart failure i wouldn't let my diabetic patients run that bp. was that a bp at rest? when you're exercising it's fine but not at rest. is your kidney function normal? if kidney function ok i'd treat first with an ace inhibitor or an angiotensin ii receptor-type 1 blocker. many diabetics require more than one bp med to achieve control.
what are the causes of exercises induced arrythmia?
hypoxia cardiac ischemia (artery blockages) congenital and valvular heart disease prolonged qt syndrome congestive heart failure amyloidosis sarcoidosis among many others.
would heart failure show up on an ekg? i have had a lot of shortness of breath and sinus tachycardia that has gotten worse during my pregnancy! worried
no chf would not show up on ecg but is diagnosed by echocardiogram & symptoms.
where would you send a 42 y o woman with long term chronic anemia diagnosed svt palpitations shortness of breath intermittent swelling of lower extremities and fatigue?
you would need to see cardiologist for your palpitation shortness of breath and swelling on your legs and make sure you dont have congestive heart failure or other heart problem. you also will need to see a hematologist to figure out why you have chronic anemia as there is a highy likelihood that your anemia is related to all of your symptoms ( fatigue shortness of breath palpitation etc).
is it ok to take metropolol if suffering from congestive heart failure and heart rate is 47-5. also have history of dialysis?
low-dose beta blockers are now an accepted adjunct therapy for individuals with heart failure.
is it ok to take metropolol if suffering from congestive heart failure and heart rate is 47-5. also have history of dialysis?
you should be carefully following with your nephrologist and your cardiologist due to your medical conditions and history. it is vital to know and they would know if your heart rate of 47 is new and/or how they have addressed it in the past. if you came to see me i would send you directly to the emergency room by ambulance. if you cannot reach your doctors for advice go to the er.
if a patient has congestive heart failure will there be elevated troponin levels?
troponin levels if they are elevated mean there is damage acute to the heart muscle. in heart failure that is not controlled this is more likely. please consult your cardiologist and talk about it
i was wondering is a rheumatic fever dangerous?
untreated rf can lead to heart failure and early death.
i work in a cardiac rehab facility as an intern and i'm doing a case study why would someone be on amiodarone and carvedilol?
amiodarone is a powerful anti arrhythmic having some beta blocker properties. carvedilol is a beta blocker without anti arrhythmic properties. it also benefits people with heart failure (hf) &/or coronary disease(cad). if someone has an arrhythmia and cad hf or possibly just hypertension it's common to need both. combination can cause slow heart rate or low bp among other side effects.
what are heart pacemakers for?
most are placed for patients with too slow heart rates some can deliver shocks (aicd) for patients with rapid heart beats. rarely used to improve heart pumping function in patients with heart failure.
what's the difference between a heart failure from myocardial infarction?
chf may be independent of mi but mi is most common cause of chf (systolic).
i have sarcoidosis of the lungs but i'm having heart palps already had mri my heart was fine but still having heart palps could mri miss cardiac sarc?
would miss it. sarcoidosis is a strange illness that can affect the heart and lungs. most common us congestive heart failure but atrial fibrillation is also a complication and could be felt as palpitations and would not show up on the mri. has your doctor checked for this with an event recorder or holter? just a thought. mri looks for structural things. i'm thinking more electrical.
i had an 24 hr ecg and at a time i was walking at a normal pace my heart rate was 180bpm and i was feeling breathless it was in sinus rhythm causes?
many reason for rapid heart rate: i. e. atrial fibrilation flutter psvt sinus tachycardia. if it is sinus tachycardia asyou mentioned the causes are as below: hyperthyroidism fever volume depletion anxiety pheochromocytoma sepsis anemia hypotension and shock pulmonary embolism heart failure low oxygen copd nicotine or caffeine etc.
what can be done for restrictive cardiomyopathy disease?
adults with restrictive cardiomyopathy have a prolonged course of heart failure with fatigue shortness of breath and worsening activity tolerance. patients ultimately die of heart failure unless they become candidates for a heart transplant. blood clots in the heart can be another cause of complications and death in these patients.
what is an ejection fraction in dilated cardiomyopathy?
an ef is a measure of what fraction of the heart's blood is ejected out into the aorta with each beat. normal is > 50% (range ~50-70%). less than 35-40% puts one at increased risk of serious heart rhythm problems. medications can improve the ejection fraction. this number however has substantial limitations cardiologists could discuss at length and is not everything in heart failure.
which is worst of these 2? high pulse rate and blood pressure?
a high pulse rate (or fast heart rate) is not inherently dangerous as long as the fast heart rate is due to a normal heart rhythm (e. g. the fast heart rate associated with exercies). similarly elevated blood pressure is a normal response to exercise but abnormally high blood pressure (or hypertension) can lead to heart failure stroke or coronary artery disease.
what's the death rate for pacemaker battery replacements?
really really really low. < 1:2000 if you don't have particularly severe heart failure or some much more rare condition which sets you up for major complications.
what is the definition or description of: pacemaker?
a pacemaker is a device which sends electrical signals to the heart triggering heartbeats when needed. there are many ways to implant and configure a pacemaker; it may beat the top chambers (atria) lower chambers (ventricles) or both. some systems stimulate both the left and right ventricles together. pacemakers generally treat abnormally slow heart rhythms and certain types of heart failure.
what does postpartum cardiomyopathy mean?
postpartum cardiomyopathy (ppcm) is heart failure secondary to left ventricular systolic dysfunction toward the end of pregnancy or in the months after delivery in the absence of any other cause of heart failure. ppcm is a diagnosis of exclusion.
what medication is better for arrhythmia's bystolic (nebivolol) or metoprolol?
cardioselective beta blockers tend to be best for arrhythmias while a combined effect medication like bystolic (nebivolol) may be best for hypertension or heart failure.
is carzec better or metoprolol?
for the treatment of congestive heart failure carvedilol (branded as carzec in some countries) has better data and is preferred. metoprolol also has supportive data and is an acceptable substitute if carvedilol is not available. for arrhythmias metoprolol is preferred. for hypertension they're interchangeable in my opinion.
i have anxiety and ocd about my heart rate and blood pressure. can your heart beat go so fast you die? often when i see it higher this the worst fear.
if sufficient tachycardia continues over time it is possible to cause heart failure and eventually die. it would have to be significantly above sinus tachycardia >120 for hours or days. people with paroxysmal atrial tachycardia can have heart rates around 150-250bpm. atrial flutter around 300bpm. of course ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation leads to death quickly within minutes.
what is the difference between idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure? both terms have been used these past 9 years
idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy is a condition in which the heart muscle becomes weak without obvious cause. some cases are genetic some may have been triggered by a virus. congestive heart failure is the result of the weak heart's inability to circulate the blood adequately. this may result in symptoms such as fatigue and shortness of breath and signs such as chest congestion and swelling.
what is the difference between idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure? both terms have been used these past 9 years
ideopathic=unknown cause cardio=heart myo=muscle path=disease; meaning heart muscle is weak <negative_smiley>or stiff; usually also enlarged as a result. congestive refers to excess body water retention in the lungs ; body due to heart weakness. heart failure actually means weak not failed (one would be dead). the most common basis is arterial disease despite artery lumens on angiogram "looking normal".
what r the long term side effects to being 100% paced with a dual lead pacemaker? i have one &am paced100%@bottom 70%@top i am almost 30yrs old.
right ventricular apical pacing(tradtional lead position) greater than 40%is associated with increased risk of atrial fibrillation ventricular dysfunction and heart failure. new pacing algorythms(programming) and alternative right ventricular lead positions that permit more natural impulse conduction may reduce this risk.
what is the definition or description of: troponin t?
this is a substance known as a biomarker which becomes elevated in the blood if there is a problem with the heart. it can happen with an acute heart attack chronic heart failure or severe medical illness that places strain on the heart.
what are the symptoms of hypokalemia?
based on following thousands with low k i can list 1. fatigue 2. muscle cramps 3. brain fog 4. getting up at night to pee more than once. 5. paralysis 6. irregular heart beats 7 glucose intolerance aka diabetes but this is a sign. 8. if caused by excess aldo: high blood pressure but not a symptom it is a sign. 9. if 8 then headaches. 10. heart failure. 11. drop dead. find cause and correct it.
what does lanoxin (digoxin) diuretics and vasodilators treat?
this combination is usually to treat congestive heart failure.
what happens if you get another heart attack after having a angioplasty/?
each heart attack cause the loss of some heart muscle. sometimes a little sometimes a lot. if you lose enough heart muscle you can develop heart failure.
what is the difference between cardiac cough and cardiac asthma? cough is not from medication or illness. have it with talking. have dcm.
both refer to symptoms that are usually interpreted as pulmonary in origin but found to be from increased fluid in the lung from congestion from heart failure.
increase in freq of palps 6 months ago. tests normal except mri had lv ef of 43% & mild hypokinesis. echo 1yr ago was 59%. cause of drop & serious?
diseased heart valve? heart failure? it may be serious. consult to a cardiologist. to read more about it check this link: <link>
is 200mg of coq 10 safe and effective for lowering blood pressure? current meds are zoloft losartan betapace and nexium (esomeprazole). any interactions?
of coq10. neither has been regulated by the fda. (one form appears to have more antioxidant properties). several conditions have been associated with low coq10 levels including htn heart failure certain cancers gingivitis gastric ulcers etc. currently there has not been a consensus arrived at as to the bp lowering effects (due to lack of controlled studies). may affect zoloft (sertraline) level a bit.
i just did a levabuterol. treatment and a bude sonide treatment with my nebulizer. and mheart rate is 89. is this okay? i take metoprolol for chf.
albuterol inhalation may elevate heart rate a small amount. metoprolol helps heart failure in part by slowing your heart rate. brief elevation of heart rate after albuterol inhalation would be ok if it doesn't cause chest pain or discomfort in a patient with a heart condition. a heart rate that stays elevated in between treatments may indicate that an adjustment in medication is needed.
what antidepressant is safe in an 85 year old patient with a history of paroxysmal afib currently taking 0. 5mg ativan (lorazepam) qhs?
eliminating unnecessary medications or at least lowering the doses that will allow. wellbutrin (bupropion) can exacerbate cardiac arrhythmia so is not a panacea. my father developed congestive heart failure on it - almost immediately after starting it.
what is the prognosis for a 51 year old with stage 3 heart failure from idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy? this was before bivent icd.
resynchronization with a bi-v pacemaker has changed the landscape. have your ef rechecked several months after the implantation. it may be normal now. if so your prognosis is excellent.
what could cause a peripheral bounding pulse?
a bounding pulse is a strong and forceful heart rate. a bounding pulse can occur in a few conditions such as hypertension anemia anxiety abnormal heart rhythm heavy exercise fever aortic regurgitation overactive thyroid pregnancy heart failure and chronic kidney disease.
will coreg (carvedilol) 12. 5 mg twice a day cause erectile disfunction?
erections enabled by enough? blood flow into corpus cavernosum of penis to push vein flaps closed trap blood & distend the tissue. thus men with advanced arterial disease congestive heart failure etc. do not achieve erections easily. coreg (carvedilol) in combo acei or arb agents aggressive tx of lipoproteins/nmr particle test hba1c bp etc. ? chf overtime yet? too fast might? erection ability.
when you are having shortness of breath from dcm and heart failure is there anything you can do to help with this symptom?
if your symptoms are due to becoming fluid overloaded you may need your diuretic (water pill) adjusted. there are other medication changes which can also be made depending on your blood pressure etc. sometimes people who are quite symptomatic from heart failure benefit from biventricular pacemakers. also eecp can help some. if all measures fail then may need to consider heart transplant.
what drugs are used to treat restrictive cardiomyopathy what are their dosages and how often are they taken?
restrictive cardiomyopathy can be very challenging to treat. the main avenues for treatment are diuretics to keep excess fluid off the body and blood pressure control of which there are many different choices. i would recommend finding a good heart failure cardiologist to work with.
why beta blockers is used in heart failure?
coreg (carvedilol) (carvidiol) is excellent for patient with heart failure. long acting toprol xl (metoprolol) is another choice. usually this is combined with "ace inhibitors" and water pills.
why beta blockers is used in heart failure?
in chronic systolic dysfunction there is excessive elevation in serum catecholamines. this is due to activation of sympathetic nervous system. excessive catecholamines cause apoptosis or programmed turning off of beta 1 receptor sites in heart. this results in pathological remodeling w heart getting more dilated and weaker. beta blockers (carvedilol in particular) reset receptor responsiveness.
what are symptoms of cardiomyopathy?
shortness of breath with minimal activity. weakness congestive heart failure (fluid in the lungs) feeling like you will pass out going from sitting to standing. cardiac echo is the diagnostic test that confirms.
what are hypokalemia symptoms?
based on following thousands with low k i can list 1. fatigue 2. muscle cramps 3. brain fog 4. getting up at night to pee more than once. 5. paralysis 6. irregular heart beats 7 glucose intolerance aka diabetes but this is a sign. 8. if caused by excess aldo: high blood pressure but not a symptom it is a sign. 9. if 8 then headaches. 10. heart failure. 11. drop dead. find cause and correct it.
waking up gasping for air when i'm falling asleep. occasional localized pain in sternum. healthy ecg 2 yr ago good bp doc says heart & lungs sound good. do i still need to worry about heart failure?
you generally need an echocardiogram to evaluate for heart failure but your symptoms and your age may make it more likely that you have obstructive sleep apnea and not heart failure. you may need a sleep study.
waking up gasping for air when i'm falling asleep. occasional localized pain in sternum. healthy ecg 2 yr ago good bp doc says heart & lungs sound good. do i still need to worry about heart failure?
waking up short of breath is just one of several possible symptoms of heart failure. but there are other possible explanations for this symptom. therefore it would be prudent for you to see your doctor for a thorough examination including the retelling of your medical history a physical exam and a decision by your doctor as to what other tests might be appropriate to elucidate your problem.
waking up gasping for air when i'm falling asleep. occasional localized pain in sternum. healthy ecg 2 yr ago good bp doc says heart & lungs sound good. do i still need to worry about heart failure?
i would be more concerned about the possibility of a condition known as obstructive sleep apnea. you should mention this to your doc.
waking up gasping for air when i'm falling asleep. occasional localized pain in sternum. healthy ecg 2 yr ago good bp doc says heart & lungs sound good. do i still need to worry about heart failure?
it sounds more like sleep obstruction. are you better if you sleep only on your side? can you see the back of your throat when you open your mouth? are you overweight? do you get anxious easily.
why did i feel so good for 6 weeks after bi vent icd placement then heart failure symptoms returned? i have idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.
sometimes the programming of the device needs to be changed or some other event has changed the relation of the device to the heart. let your cardiologist know and the device can be analyzed to see if something can be done.
why did i feel so good for 6 weeks after bi vent icd placement then heart failure symptoms returned? i have idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.
new arrhythmias device intervals need to be readjusted medications needs to be adjusted device isn't pacing all the time. . . check with your doctors.
why did i feel so good for 6 weeks after bi vent icd placement then heart failure symptoms returned? i have idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.
check the icd to ensure that it is actually working properly.
what are the symptoms of atrial flutter?
sometimes it can be asymptotic or regular palpitations until the heart rate is controlled. people with heart disease or poor exercise tolerance may develop symptoms such as dyspnea chest pains dizziness nausea or anxiety. prolonged fast flutter can lead to tacchycardia induced congestive heart failure!
what is bnp in bloodwork stand for and what does it test?
brain natriuretic peptide. in general terms bnp can be interpreted as follows. a normal bnp level makes the diagnosis of heart failure unlikely (rule out test) •a high bnp level makes the diagnosis of hf very likely (rule in or confirm test) •intermediate values of bnp require careful interpretation in light of patients age (consider age-adjusted cut-off values) and co-existing conditions.
which type of ventricular fibrillation is not dangerous or life-threatening?
v-fib is not compatible with life. it is a medical emergency. atrial fibrillation can be be tolerated for years but it is a cause of strokes and if you have heart failure a. fib. can make worse.
if laying on my left side is causing afib why would that be so?
there is more space on the right side of the chest compared to the left side of the chest in the chest cavity. it has been observed that patients with heart failure tend to do better when they sleep on their right side compared to the left side. for atrial fibrillation this phenomenon has not been described but it is possible that the left atrium is more likely to be compressed in that position
is your tropinine higher with heart failure or myocarditis? so when your tropinine is normal does this almost exclude one of those?
doesn't necessarily mean that you don't have heart failure or myocarditis. often with heart failure unless a heart attack or significant stress to an impaired heart is involved troponins are normal. additionally only around 50% of biopsy proven myocarditis have elevated troponins so you can have both conditions and normal troponins.
is your tropinine higher with heart failure or myocarditis? so when your tropinine is normal does this almost exclude one of those?
is a marker for heart damage due to a heart attack.
is your tropinine higher with heart failure or myocarditis? so when your tropinine is normal does this almost exclude one of those?
troponin is usually not elevated in heart failure. in myocarditis troponin is only elevated in some patients. in two studies of biopsy proven myocarditis troponin was elevated in 34% of patients and in 53% in the other study. it also depends on when the test is done. it is most likely to be high during the first month of illness suggesting that is the time that most myocardial damage is done.
what caused what? dm anemia htn hyperlipidemia peripheral vascular disease coronary art. disease pulm. htn copd chf afib kidney dis. andcva?
uncontrolled diabetes could lead to peripheral vascular disease kidney disease and failure as well as heart disease. patients with congestive heart failure are prone to develop a trial fibrillation which increase risk of cva (stroke). pulmonary hypertension has several causes and chf is one of them.
what position would have a higher heart rate and breathing rate and why?
when you lie or sit your body doesn't have to fight gravity to get blood to your head. when you stand up it does and heart rate rises and leg blood vessels tighten to maintain blood flow to your brain. breathing is less affected. if you have heart failure breathing and heart rate may rise upon lying down since more blood returns to the heart than it can handle and it backs up into the lungs.
how lethal is a congestive heart failure? my hypertrophic cardiomyopathy has turned into congestive heart failure how dangerous is it and is it possible to keep it under control?
this is a very serious condition requiring close management from a skilled cardiologist and optimally you should establish care with a large referral center with expertise in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy such as a university hospital. hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is not a curable condition and when it progresses to the point that it causes congestive heart failure symptoms it is typically quite advanced and difficult to manage. there are medications that can help control the heart failure but you should also be evaluated for advanced therapies such as a defibrillator or even a heart transplant. your family members should also be screened for this genetic condition if they haven't already.
how lethal is a congestive heart failure? my hypertrophic cardiomyopathy has turned into congestive heart failure how dangerous is it and is it possible to keep it under control?
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy includes a wide spectrum of severities as does chf so it's impossible to comment on your specific case without much more data. in general both conditions are potentially serious and require life long treatment. usually people can lead normal lives with medication and/or implanted devices.
how effective is a pacemaker in preventing heart failure?
heart failure can be the result of many different problems such as heart attacks which weaken the heart muscle untreated hypertension which can leas to a stiff heart or drug toxicity such as can occur with certain types of chemotherapy. decrease your chances of developing heart failure by managing your identifed risk factors (i. e. hypertension). a pacemaker may be needed in advanced heart failur.
how effective is a pacemaker in preventing heart failure?
if low heart beat is contributing to heart failure a pacemaker might help. if you have a weak heart with ejection fraction less than 35% and a conduction abnormality known as lbbb ( left bundle branch block) a special type of pacemaker or defibrillator to overcome the conduction abnormality will help improve heart pump function and quality of life in 70% of such patients. this is known as crt.
how high does blood pressure get before a heart attack?
no number is the "magic number" but very high pressures (for example >200/>110) when associated with angina are considered a "hypertensive emergency" and should be promptly treated. symptoms of stroke heart failure kidney failure or encephalopathy (confusion) are the key symptoms of a hypertensive crisis.
what is atrial fabrillation?
atrial fibrillation (af) is a heart rhythm problem due to disorganization of the electrical activity in the atria (upper heart chambers). af is the most common heart rhythm disorder. patients with af may have no symptoms or may have symptoms such as decreased energy palpitations or heart failure. af also increases the risk of stroke. various therapies may be used to treat af and stroke risks.
would heart failure be possible after normal resting echo? pains vomiting collapse tachycardia on standing and complete exercise intolerance 5 months. possible pots but symptoms so severe i worry.
heart failure is possible even when an echocardiographic study demonstrates normal systolic function. it's referred to as diastolic heart failure and often there are suggestions of it on an echo. your symptoms merit a thorough evaluation by your doctor or by a cardiologist.
would heart failure be possible after normal resting echo? pains vomiting collapse tachycardia on standing and complete exercise intolerance 5 months. possible pots but symptoms so severe i worry.
heart failure not likely with a "normal" echo especially at your age. and heart failure presents mainly with shortness of breath not dizziness on standing up. good luck.
would heart failure be possible after normal resting echo? pains vomiting collapse tachycardia on standing and complete exercise intolerance 5 months. possible pots but symptoms so severe i worry.
systolic heart failure very unlikely with resting echo normal. would suggest talking to your doc about checking a holter monitor to investigate arrhythmia and/or treadmill stress test to see on ecg how your heart responds to exertion and your blood pressure responds as well.
would heart failure be possible after normal resting echo? pains vomiting collapse tachycardia on standing and complete exercise intolerance 5 months. possible pots but symptoms so severe i worry.
the symptoms of heart failure are difficulty breathing with exertion or shortness of breath at rest leg swelling inability to lie flat on back due to shortness of breath and cough and fluid retention. assuming a completely normal echo your symptoms many related to vasovagal syncope pots adrenal insufficiency among others. tilt table testing and certain medications can help with diagnosis.
how serious and common is dilated cardiomyopathy?
unfortunately it is becoming more common. it can be mild or severe with associated heart failure. treatment is tailored to the underling cause.
how important is cardiac rehabilitation in the prevention of a 2nd heart attack?
it is helpful specifically if you have moderate heart disease heart failure and or haven't excercised in the past and need education on those aspects. the prevention of a subsequent heart attack is based not only on rehab but also controlling risk factors eg diabetes hypertension high cholesterol diet and smoking cessation.
how does someone know what hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is caused by?
hypertroph cardiomyopathy is a unusally thick heart and as a result makes it stiff and non compliant. . these pts also have trouble with salt and water as it can cause heart failure. some pts were born with this and it runs in familys. family should be screened. secondary causes are uncontrolled bp over long periods of time. and aortic stenosis
how does someone know what hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is caused by?
hcm is an autosomal dominant disorder which means it'sinherited from parents without gender prediliction. this is however variable and some cases do not run in families. a careful family history however will often supply clues to an otherwise unsuspected familial trend such as "uncle so and so died unexpectedly or had heart failure at a young age and the cause was never determined. ".
how would you explain dilated cardiomyopathy?
an enlarged heart leading to pump failure and congestive heart failure and arrhythmia.
how do i control fluid deposition in the stomach due to restrictive cardiomyopathy?
best way to control fluid in restrictive heart failure is to make sure that there is adequate decongestion in the first place in that you are on aggressive diuretics to maintain normal filling pressures and then to minimize salt in your diet at all costs to maintain that stability. often one needs higher doses of spironolactone to aid in ascites prevention.
would a heart doctor be able to tell if u had a heart attack by ekg and listening to your heart?
not all the time. if it was a severe heart attack ekg could show scarring changes and listening to the heart could find signs of heart failure and new murmurs which gives clues to the disease state.
how can someone die with a defibrillator?
defibrillators are typically placed in patient's with poor cardiac function. although the defibrillator does protect them from lethal arrhythmias it does not protect him from worsening heart function. patients with defibrillators can die from end-stage heart failure or from a completely noncardiac illness.
how does digoxin help treat heart failure?
digoxin helps the molecules in heart muscle involved with muscle contraction to work better resulting in heart muscle contracting better and the heart to pump better. .
how does digoxin help treat heart failure?
digoxin derived from the purple foxglove plant has been used to treat congestive heart failure for centuries-if not longer. digoxin works by helping the heart muscle contract more vigourously increasing the cardiac output with each beat. digoxin also works by affecting the way the nervous system affects the heart and its conduction system. a reason it is used to slow the heart rate in atrial fib.
how common is sudden cardiac arrest in children?
i don't have the exact statistics but sudden cardiac death is not a common thing across all age groups. children are the least affected one though given the lower prevalence of coronary artery disease congestive heart failure etc.
how can i find out the origin of chest pain edema and fatigue upon exertion? i have been hospitalized recently for hypertension i have had for many years. i now have chest pain and fatigue with exercise and exertion. my cardiologist said that my ekg so
you may be suffering from the weakening of the heart muscle or from the excessive stiffness of the heart muscle. both conditions are named heart failure but have different causes. it is really critical that your doctor identifies the cause especially looking for reversible and treatable disease that cause heart failure. there are proven procedures and medications that will improve your symptoms!
whats a broken heart syndrome?
condition brought on by stressful situation. sudden onset of chest pain like a heart attack cause by a surge of stress hormones. women are more likely than men. death of a loved one divorce break up betrayal or romantic rejection. a part of your heart enlarged and does not pump well. must of the times is a short term muscle heart failure. other name is takotsubo cardiomiopathy.
what causes heart failure?
in a healthy heart during each heartbeat a set amount of blood enters the heart and is pumped out again. in heart failure your heart cannot cope with pumping the full amount of blood in each heartbeat. systolic heart failure- the ventricles of the heart do not contract properly during each heartbeat so blood is not adequately pumped out of the heart. diastolic heart failure. this occurs when the ventricle does not fill up with blood enough
what causes heart failure?
the primary job of the heart and cardiovascular system is to deliver oxygen to the body. a failure to adequately deliver oxygen to the body is one of the best definitions of heart failure. there are many causes of heart failure. structural heart disease congenital heart disease damaged heart muscle due to a myriad of causes are all examples of problems that can cause heart failure.
what causes heart failure?
chf is primarily caused by an issue in the heart that prevents it from being able to supply your body with the oxygen it needs. this can be caused by weakness of the heart muscle insufficiency of a valve in the heart or a rhythm disturbance that disrupts the forward flow of blood from the heart.
what heart conditions can cause ectopic heart beats?
ectopy can be seen in normal hearts with no apparent disease. there are many cardiac conditions such as ischemia heart failure inflammation scar and heart attach that are associated with ectopy.
how long does it take high blood pressure to cause heart attack? hours years what?
the problem is most people don't know when their hbp began and have already been exposed for years when diagnosed. also hbp is only 1 of many risk factors. it is actually a more potent risk factor by far for stroke and congestive heart failure than for heart attack. (also kidney failure). treating it lowers the risk.
how does dilated cardiomyopathy affect your health?
the weakened heart muscle causes symptoms related to heart failure such as shortness of breath easy fatigue leg swelling etc. and there is a risk of heart arrhythmia. if severe enough other organs began to fail because of impaired pumping function of the heart. there are treatments however to address these problems.
how can we cure the patient suffering from global hypokinesis severe lv dysfuntion?
there is no cure for severe heart failure except a transplant. there are temporizing medications that can alleviate the some of the work the heart has to do but it is not going to make the heart regain function.
i've been experiencing abnormally extreme fatigue over the past few weeks combined with difficulty concentrating and heavy heart beat while resting. ?
fatigue is tricky. may be signs of many different things. considering your age hopefully heart trouble is unlikely but could be a sign of heart failure (particularly if you've been sick recently). other basic things: anemia thyroid trouble diabetes sleep apnea (that's a big one).
i am taking metoprolol succinate er 50 mg twice a day. it is now more expensive. is it ok to ask dr for metoprolol tartrate 50 mg twice a day? equal?
as you have noted succinate er (extended release) gives better 24 hours coverage of bp control because of pharmacokinetics versus tartarate. further if you are on it for heart failure the studies were with er not tartarate.
is there an alternative to digoxin for a male aged 79?
there are many alternatives to digoxin but this depends on the reason digoxin was being used. depending on the reason it was being used (eg. rate or rhythm control or congestive heart failure) appropriate meds can be used. this should be discussed with your doctor.
what distinguishes a heart attack from heart failure?
a heart attack is an occlusion of a coronary artery that leads to no blood supply to part of the heart muscle which can lead to permanent heart damage. this can lead to heart failure which is a drop in the pumping action of the heart leading to shortness of breath leg swelling fatigue. this can also be caused by valvular heart disease.
what distinguishes a heart attack from heart failure?
a "heart attack" typically means an acute occlusion of one or more or the arteries supplying blood to the heart muscle resulting in ischemia to that portion of the heart and subsequent death of the affected heart muscle. "heart failure" means that the heart cannot adequately deliver oxygen to meet the body's needs. heart failure has many causes and many manifestations.
what is partial heart failure?
partial heart failure is not a term we use. i don't know where you got it.
how long can a heart attack last before it kills?
is very common cause of sudden death. the early ischemia of the heart muscle can trigger a life ending rhythm(usually ventricular fibrillation). on the other hand if that doesn't happen but a large mass of muscle dies the ensuing shock or heart failure can kill days or longer later.
how to get a fast heart beat besides exercising and drinking caffeine?
fever anemia pain anxiety panic/fright asthma inhalers amphetamines cocaine hemorrhage excess thyroid hormone infection epinephrine dehydration congestive heart failure carbon monoxide poisoning - there are many more: i can't think of them all!
what actually happens to a person when they experience a heart attack?
to actually experience means they have symptoms. the classic symptoms are chest pressure or heaviness like an elephant on chest severe cold sweats shortness of breath there may be nausea dizziness radiation of discomfort to jaw or left arm. others feel nothing others have acute complications including sudden death. congestive heart failure but others none.
what should a heart failure patient take they're contraindicated to beta blockers?
it really depends on the type of heart failure. here are some of the common options 1. acei inhibitors (if no contraindication) 2. hydralazine and nitrates 3. calcium channel blockers.
what should a heart failure patient take they're contraindicated to beta blockers?
if beta blockers are contraindicated there are many other choices depending on your case 1diuretics 2ace inhibiters 3arbs angiotensin reseptor blockers 4calcium channel blockers 5aldactone inhibiters 6blood vessel dilators 7digoxin 8heart pump meds every case is differernt and your cardiologist will prescribe what is good for you if beta blockers are contraindicated.
what should a heart failure patient take they're contraindicated to beta blockers?
betablockers are commonly used and in fact recommended for the treatment of heart failure. they are usually not started in the acute decompensated patient especially if in shock or with low blood pressures.
what type of medicine is digoxin? what are the side effects?
digoxin is a purigfied cardiac glycoside. digoxin is used in the treatment of atrial fibrillation atrial flutter and sometimes heart failure that cannot be controlled by other medication. common adverse effects: loss of appetite nausea vomiting and diarrhea. other common effects are blurred vision visual disturbance confusion drowsiness dizziness insomnia nightmares agitation depressio.
well i've had massive heart-attack in 2012 had an icd put in and now they say that 75% of my heart isn't blood or oxygen am i at high risk for avr?
an ischemic cardiomyopathy (cm) such as you have requires close followup with your cardiologist and regular assessment for arrhythmia and heart failure. the icd helps guard against sudden death as a result of dangerous ventricular arrhythmias (one of the major risks with cm). the other risk is of worsening heart failure. your meds seem reasonable (consider carvedilol instead of metoprolol ).
what dose it means when your pulse is running high and your sitting down?
if you are resting and your heart rate is still fast it could be from caffeine among other things. the heart compensates by increasing the heart rate when people have heart failure but just checking when you are sitting down isn't enough information. if you are constantly tired need to rest during the day then see your doctor.
how is digoxin used in the management of acute pulmonary edema?
digoxin is used for management of atrial fibrillation and chronic heart failure. it has no role in the management of acute pulmonary edema or acute heart failure.
is an echocardiogram stress test ekg and chest x ray enough to discard any heart related problem such as heart failure?
yes it will rule it out with good confidence
i have pots heart failure and asthma. i sleep with my head raised about six inches. i am short of breath when i lie down. why?
this is typical for heart failure. . when you lay down the fluid in your lungs accumulates in the lower parts of the lungs so it gives the feeling of shortness of breath. the treatment is taking the heart medications regularly including the water pill. its ok to sleep on many pillows or raise the head of your bed.
with heart injection fraction of 45 after a heart attack 5 weeks ago do i still have to take digoxin?
an ejection fraction of 45% is not enough reason by its self to be on digoxin. digoxin reduces the need for hospitalizations with heart failure. however recent data questions even this. digoxin is an old medication that also has benefits for controlling heart rate especially with exercise.
what may be causes of chronically high heart beat in mid 90 to 100 and a bit above over more then a year? thyroid and lft and iron level was normal
anemia infection hyperthyroidism heart failure valvular heart disease autonomic dysfunction pericarditis myocarditis. rare causes would include neuroendocrine tumors such as a pheochromocytoma. it merits a careful history and physical exam ecg chest x-rays and some routine blood tests.
what's the difference between heart failure heart stroke and heart attack? if they're basically the same shouldn't the name be too?
they are different. a heart attack is when a blockage occurs in one (or more) of the blood vessels that supplies blood to the heart muscle. heart failure is when the heart is not able to pump adequate blood to the bodily organs. a stroke (not heart stroke) occurs when there is a blockage of one of the blood vessels supplying the brain or when a blood vessel in the brain leaks.
what's the difference between heart failure heart stroke and heart attack? if they're basically the same shouldn't the name be too?
they are very different to physicians and to the physiology of specific heart diseases and how they are treated. heart failure is a failure of the pump mechanism of the heart to effectively pump oxygenated blood to the body and bring it back. there can be many causes of this problem. heart attack represents an acute blockage of oxygen flow to some specific muscular area of the heart.
what leads to irregular heart beats?
it could be from heart failure or valvular abnormalities or medication induced or cad or idiopathic.
heart rate 153 how danger? can my heart stop if continue fast? also i'm asthma and most of the time i can't breath normal. plzzz help
the causes of a fast heart rhtyhm needs to be evaluated first some may be due to abnormal circuits in the heart or may actually be due to normal variants ie inappropriate sinus tachycardia. maintaining an elevated heart rate for a prolonged periodof time can put you at risk for a tachycardia induced cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure. you must seek evluation for this.
how do they diognoise peripartum cardiomyopothy? what are the spacifics they follow
peripartum cardiomyopathy (ppcm) occurs during the final month to up to 5 months following delivery. it is a form of dilated cardiomyopathy that causes systolic dysfunction and congestive heart failure(chf). it is dx'd by cardiac ultrasound by excluding other causes and treated like chf. 98% survival rate 50% return to normal function w/in 1 year but 21%+ chance of recurrence w/ future pregnancy.
how long would i have to stay in the hospital for recovery from mi?
on many factors. the size of the infarct whether or not heart failure occured revascularization etc. impossible to give a general rule except that an uncomplicated mi may only need 24-48 hrs in hospital.
what are the dangers of of cardio arrhythmia and congestive heart failure?
sudden cardiac death can occur due to an arrhythmia if one has a weakened heart muscle. that is why evaluation for defibrillators are always done fo this patient population.
would an ekg detect heart failure? and if my ekg came back completely normal would that mean i am not having heart failure?
ecg does not diagnose heart failure. it is possible to have a completely normal ecg and have heart failure. it isn't highly likely but it is possible.
would an ekg detect heart failure? and if my ekg came back completely normal would that mean i am not having heart failure?
you can not diagnose heart failure with an ekg. normal ekg also does not mean you don't have heart failure.
when can sinus tachycardia affect you?
sinus tachycardia always due to "something else". it's the "something else" that can affect you. examples of "something else": pain fever anxiety exercise thyroid excess deconditioning and congestive heart failure. there are many other causes as well.
how many masive heart attack can a man in his sixties have before death? male late sixties has had a previous heart attack.
massive is unclear some bad ekgs and high enzymes may not be accurate as to remaining muscle. when damage causes low function low ejection fraction and congestive heart failure then one may need left ventricular assist lvad or transplant if a candidate.
have idiopathic dcm & bi vent icd. ef was 38%. have a bad cold and heart feels strange short of breath but don't want to go to er due to cost. norma?
the cold can put increased stress on the heart leading to acute congestive heart failure. your cardiologist can adjust medications and order outpatient tests to determine the best course of therapy. i have given iv diuretics in the office to get someone through these events. if you are significantly in distress however you need to go to the er.
i've had a heart attack and i have congestive heart failure. my knees stay cold and sometimes my arms are cold. is this something to do with chf?
cold extremities are common in chf patients
what are the issues with cardio arrhythmia and congestive heart failure?
patients with congestive heart failure are at risk for several different abnormal heart rhythms including life threatening and more benign rhythms that can affect quality of life. the most common arrhythmia is called atrial fibrillation - it is treated with blood thinners medications to control the rhythm and sometimes procedures. an implanted defibrillator (icd) can protect from sudden death.
what are the issues with cardio arrhythmia and congestive heart failure?
some patients with congestive heart failure are prone to develop serious arrhythmias known as ventricular fibrillation. it is more common in patients who have low ejection fraction on echo (ultrasound of the heart).
what are the issues with cardio arrhythmia and congestive heart failure?
they hold close ties because if you develop uncontrollable arrhythmias it can weaken your heart and you may develop chf.
hello professionals! thank you in advance. my father 75 yearly male with c. o. p chf is now having kidnney failure with creatine levels high potassium ok. what else besides dialysis is rec?
you describe one of the most complicated scenarios in medicine: a person with clinically signification heart failure lung disease and now renal failure. not everyone with chronic kidney disease needs dialysis. if his heart failure medications and diuretics can be adjusted he may be able to avoid dialysis for a long time. if he has acute kidney failure. the options are less.
i had a heart attack and congestive heart failure and ever since then i stay cold all the time. feels like deep inside to the bone. any reason?
many reasons from anemia to med side effect to low cardiac output etc-needs detailed evaluation
what could be the cause of jugular vein distention hypertension fast heart rate upon motion with normal cardiac echo ekg and thyroid?
this could be diastolic heart failure. heart failure could be associated with above mentioned symptoms along with shortness of breath leg swelling.
how to treat elevated troponin levels and pneumonia?
not sure why a troponin was drawn in a pneumonia patient. if the patient has no heart attack symptoms would just treat the pneumonia and evaluate the cardiac status after the pneumonia resolves. if heart attack symptoms might be heart attack and heart failure not pneumonia. should ask the doc what's the story.
have had sudden horrible asthma for a couple weeks and heart palpitations. today i started coughing up mucus. can it be caused from asthma?
asthma and heart failure can sometimes look alike. you should go see your doctor and be checked to see what's going on.
hoping you can tell me is rapid heart rate one of the symptoms of congestive heart failure?
yes rapid heart rate goes with chf.
i feel breathless even when oxygen levels are ok [97 to 99%] pls advice of other possible causes of breathlessness [iron level and ecg was normal ]?
anxiety can make you feel breathless. heart failure can do it. pulmonary vascular narrowing can make you feel breathless -- that gets missed. glad you're not anemic. the question is going to be "how is your exercise tolerance? " and "do you need to have spirometry? " hope you find a treatable cause.
have hcm recently had svt pulse over 220 - troponin levels were 70 on admission -1700 after 30 minutes - what are risks heart failure?
hcm course can be benign but can cause syncope arrhythmias ( like svt) ischemia heart failure and brain stroke. can progress to dilated cardiomyopathy and heart failure in 5 to 10% of patients as a result of fibrosis a ventricular remodeling. atrial fibrillation 10-20% patients can precipitate heart failure and stroke. focus management by close follow up with cardiology.
is bnp blood test necessary if echocardiogram was okay? have shortness of breath and cough
bnp sometimes helps in diagnosing diastolic heart failure. patients with diastolic heart failure have normal echocardiograms for the most part.
is echocardiogram and ekg more accurate than bnp and nt-probnp blood tests to check for cardiovascular health?
in people your age a normal ecg and normal echocardiogram correlate to good cardiovascular health. a bnp is a biomarker used in patients with heart failure or likely heart failure.
i had a major heart attack and now have chf. my oxygen was always in the 90's. now my oxygen level has dropped to the 80's sometime. is my chf worse?
if the drop in oxygenation is due to worsening of heart failure you should have more orthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and of course the echo will show worsening of ejection fraction. otherwise one needs to look for pulmonary causes including recurrent pulmonary embolism copd and interstitial lung fibrosis
what are the dangers of cardio arrhythmia and congestive heart failure?
the most severe danger is death. let your cardiologist guide you down this rocky path to safety.
help please. could ekgs or blood tests show heart failure?
ecg can be non-specific. a blood test called a bnp level can help differentiate heart failure versus other conditions that may cause shortness of breath.
heart failure at 23? no fam history no smoke/hbp/ 112ls. heard about 25 y. o. who was diagnosed. should i be worried. had ekg last yr and passed.
heart failure is a symptom complex. many abnormalities can cause chf. chf is uncommon in the 20's.
whats the difference between right ventricular enlargement cardiomyopathy and right sided heart failure? what is worse?
rv enlargement can be a sign of something wrong with the rv (weakness pressure or volume overload). cardiomyopathy means muscle weakness: the ventricle fails to contracts with normal vigor. this can be due to many things: the commonest are viral infection alcohol and genetics. if the rv can't handle the load it may eventually fail resulting in"right sided heart failure".
what are these in detail? ldl-p bnp & carotid imt. why are they ordered?
these tests are used to gain some crude understanding of what environment is affecting the vessels of the body. ldl-p is a protein that potentiates the buildup of plaque in the heart vessel wall. bnp is a protein that is found in excess either in acute bouts of congestive heart failure as well as in moments when a heart plaque is fracturing and about to cause a heart attack. imt is a measurement
how high does the troponin result be to signal a heart attack?
in the proper setting with chest pain & abnormal electrocardiogram an elevated troponin (highly sensitive version) can indicate heart damage. however there are other possible explanations for an elevated level. these include congestive heart failure pulmonary embolism (blood clot in the lungs) or kidney failure. the pattern of the elevation over time is also useful.
how do benicar (olmesartan) and lisinopril differ?
as dr. weisberger noted benicar (olmesartan) is an arb while lisinopril is an ace inhibitor. the latter has a greater risk for dry ticklish cough compared to the former. otherwise both are used to lower blood pressure and have been proven beneficial in heart failure as well as protecting kidneys. cost is the other big difference b/c benicar (olmesartan) is a brand drug while lisinopril is a generic available for $4/mo.
holter shows 17 000 pvcs. ep says do nothing meds or ablation. father of 2 now scared about future heart failure/surgery. should i be worried?
vpcs have many possible causes and meanings. many times they do not need to be treated even if very frequent. the ep physicians are specialists in rhythm and should be well qualified to judge whether treatment is indicated. you should discuss with the ep and ask for explanation and if needed reassurance as the ep has the most information about you.
my dad was released from the hospital with chf and given carvedilol 25mg 2x daily. i've read patients start with 3. 125mg. why was his dosage different?
the usual starting dose for new onset systolic heart failure is 3. 125 mg. two possible explanations for his dosing: 1) he had previously been on a similar dose or 2) his chf was dominantly diastolic heart failure due to uncontrolled hypertension and the carvedilol dose was for bp control.
my son is tachycardic heart rate 120 for 4 hours now what to do? my son is 7 years old
a normal resting heart rate for a child under 10 years of age can be anywhere from 70-130 beats per minute. however your son's heart rate being on higher end for 4 hours is concerning. many things can cause a fast heart rate such as: -an arrhythmia such as supraventricular tachycardia or wolf-parkinson-white syndrome -anxiety or stress -medications such as cold remedies or asthma medicines -caffeine -pneumonia or other lung disease -thyroid disorder -heart failure if your child appears ill or is having other symptoms such as chest pain fainting dizziness fever swelling of hands and feet or difficulty breathing you should take him to the emergency room or call his doctor immediately.
what is coreg (carvedilol) used for.
is used for heart failure or high blood pressure.
why do i get daily attacks of shortness of breath when my peak flow oxygen saturation pulse temperature blood test and ekg results are all normal?
many things can cause you to feel short of breath. one of the most common is a panic attack. are you prone to them? other medical conditions such as congestive heart failure with volume overload are frequently seen in elderly patients. other heart conditions and pulmonary conditions can cause this as well. in a young healthy person such as yourself a panic attack seems more likely. see your dr
hi docs would afib make my heart failure worse if i don't get it cardioverted?
if your rate is controlled it should not.
hi docs would afib make my heart failure worse if i don't get it cardioverted?
yes. atrial fibrillation could worsen your heart failure if rate is not well controlled. recent data shows that at least one attempt of cardioversion should be attempted for a fib patients. if atrial fibrillation is secondary to heart failure then it could be difficult to maintain in rhythm even with antiarrythmic drugs after cardioversion.
i take ramipril and get odd dizzy spell and feel sluggish why?
it is possible that ramipril has caused your blood pressure to be low enough that you have these symptoms. whether you are taking it for high blood pressure or for heart failure you may find it helpful to get a bp cuff of your own and check. if you are nearly passing out then please get medical attention right away.
my friend has 6 stents a pacemaker defibulator and the back of his heart is dead. how can someone live with their heart half dead?
the heart is a muscle and uses electricity to generate the "squeeze" necessary to get blood to the whole body. stents keep blood flowing to the muscle and a pacer/defibrillator keeps the electricity on and timed right. when part of the heart is dead patients are less active. they also may develop congestive heart failure with fluid backing up into lungs. pills can help.
my potassium is low so i was taking micro-k. would this be a permanent problem?
low potassium is usually caused by medications called diuretics there are used for control of hypertension and heart failure as well as swelling of the legs. if you do not use a diuretic then you should find out from your doctor what the problem is. you will need micro k other potassium supplement or potassium sparing drug as long as the potassium remains low.
metoprolol tartrate what is it used for?
metoprolol is a beta blocker used to treat hypertension coronary artery disease during an acute heart attack or for treatment of angina and congestive heart failure.
what to do if patient has high hr no energy lightheartedness svt 180 bpm. what medication would you give?
if your heart rate remains 180 bpm for more than a couple hours you could experience heart failure. if your svt is intermittent then a beta-blocker class of medications is often enough to suppress it. it's best to go in for a full evaluation by a heart rhythm specialist as treatment is beyond the scope of information attainable here. alost an ablation procedure might cure it without meds.
how can i have chf if i have a defibrillator?
congestive heart failure is a dysfunction of the heart muscle. defibrillator is not a treatment for congestive heart failure. you need defibrillator in case if the heart goes out of rhytm. the device can help the heart at time by synchronizing heart function.
have had an ekg chest xray and ct scan. all came back fine. is there any possibility that i could have heart failure/related? or is it anxiety?
it is possible that this is an anxiety disorder. good to hear that your are being followed by your doc and that your test results are good. seek the help of a clinical psychologist who works w/anxiety disorders for additional help. there is much reason to hope. peace and good health.
have had an ekg chest xray and ct scan. all came back fine. is there any possibility that i could have heart failure/related? or is it anxiety?
you do not have heart problems. please stop wasting money on such impossibilities and get some help learning how to live in our stressful world.
heart is enlarged tachycardia present b\p 18<negative_smiley>100. dr. is concerned about congestive heart failure can i take care of this at home? 3 blocked arter
you are actually in danger of a brain hemorrhage. you also have diabetes and sleep apnea. you need to be on medication and you need advice on diet and exercise. if you try to be your own doctor you'll be dead soon. get with the program take charge of your health with the guidance of a competent physician and you may have many more good years.
how can ectopic atrial tachycardia be dangerous and how can it develope into other arhytmias?
it could cause chest pain shortness of breath palpitations hypotension dizziness syncope. in the long run it could cause heart failure due to tachycardia.
my husband grandmother is 95 and is becoming extremely frail and ailing. his mum said she thought is grandma did not have a pacemaker she would have past away. is this true? does the pacemaker keep her alive so she would not die of heart failure due to
pacemakers are for the treatment of conduction system abnormalities/failure and in certain instances can be life prolonging in advanced conduction system disease.
my husband grandmother is 95 and is becoming extremely frail and ailing. his mum said she thought is grandma did not have a pacemaker she would have past away. is this true? does the pacemaker keep her alive so she would not die of heart failure due to
a pacemaker can't keep you from dying of heart failure. it can keep you from dying of not having a heart beat but not of that.
my wife has a 30-35 ejection fraction with a pacemaker and dedefibrillator. what are her chances to live a long life. she is 60 years old.?
this is really complicated. the best answer you'll be able to do yourself is here: <link> plug in every one of the parameters correctly and you'll get the best answer avail as of several years ago. heart failure advancements continue at breakneck pace.
when does orthastatic hypotension stop after prolong bed rest for 3 months? will walking be dangerous? or would help?
drink plenty of fluids and gradually increase your activity (walking is a good activity since your leg muscles "pump" the blood in your veins towards your heart. some extra salt is helpful provided there are no other problems (like congestive heart failure) a health care provider should monitor this! hope this helps' dr z
i've had breathlessness on exertion for years but it's getting worse. echo ef & bnp both normal. how is diastolic heart failure diagnosed/ruled out?
nonsystolic heart failure or diastolic dysfunction means that the heart is operating inefficiently in the relaxation phase. this occurs because of damage to heart muscle by untreated hypertension or from other causes. exertional breathlessness has many other causes besides heart failure & if you've had the heart checked already it may be time to look at lungs etc. a consult on healthtap may help
my father died had of a heart attack and i believe my great grandpa did too on my moms side. what are the best ways to avoid heart failure for myself?
heart attack and heart failure are different. ha can lead to hf. as you realize your risks are higher. knowing the potential problem is the first step. exercise (resistance and cardio) weight control and no smoking are important. the proper diet is important. cut out sugar and eat a balanced diet in protein complex carbs and health fats. find a good doctor you can trust and work w/them.
my father died had of a heart attack and i believe my great grandpa did too on my moms side. what are the best ways to avoid heart failure for myself?
general healthy lifestyle including well-rounded diet lots of exercise (doesn't matter what kind) and no drugs/smoking only moderate alcohol are helpful for heart health. with a strong family history even a very young person ie. 20 should get their cholesterol checked at least once.
my echocardiogram shows diastolic dysfunction. the cardiologist i saw today said no worries comes with age. i'm 60. my ekg showed silent mi?
actually diastolic dysfunction is not normal at any age as shown by several recent studies. the most common cause of heart failure as people get into the very elderly years is diastolic heart failure. imagine a closed pumping system which needs some suction activity to fill itself prior to pumping - when the heart gets stiff it loses that function.
my doctor prescribe digoxin (dixin. 5) to my son who is 2 year old having asd 15*15 mm is it safe to give this medicine to him? what is you suggest?
digoxin is commonly used to treat heart failure symptoms in children. the other question that comes to mind is whether there is a plan to close the asd in the future.
my doctor prescribe digoxin (dixin. 5) to my son who is 2 year old having asd 15*15 mm is it safe to give this medicine to him? what is you suggest?
digoxin is a drug that increases the strength of heart contractions and may be useful in the treatment of heart failure (as may be associated with a large left to right shunt such as an asd). it is a relatively safe drug although abnormal heart rhythms may develop if the dose is too high or if your child has abnormal potassium levels (too high or too low) while on digoxin.
what is primary amyloidosis with cardiomyopathy? how do you treat it?
amyloid is a disease that causes a deposit of a protein at various places in the body. for cardiac amyloid the deposits are in the heart muscle which cause a thickening of the muscle but as the heart thickens it is not able to pump well. treatment is the same as for heart failure or transplant.
what is primary amyloidosis with cardiomyopathy? how do you treat it?
primary amyloidosis is a type of plasma cell cancers and produces abnomral proteins to form amyloid that can potentially deposit in various organs and damage their functions. when the primary amyloidosis is associated with heart failure the survial will be very dismal. treatment is two-fold: treat heart failure and treat primary amyloidosis. the later include chemo and stem cell transplant.
is shifting from amiodarone to dronedarone helpful to treat amiodarone induced hyperthyroidism (what are the difference in side effect between them?
dronaderone has less thyroid and pulmonary toxicity than amiodarone as it's a different chemical structure within same class. but it has its on cautions -- mainly not to be used in patients with heart failure as it causes more flare-ups and hospitalizations so to speak. consider a different anti arrhythmic drug altogether.
my husband has perm a-fib. has had maze conversions hcm mitral repair pacemaker/defib tikosyn (dofetilide) (stopped). left atrium 6. 4 cm. will the afib lead to heart failure?
a fib could lead to heart failure if it the rate is not controlled for a long time.
my husband has perm a-fib. has had maze conversions hcm mitral repair pacemaker/defib tikosyn (dofetilide) (stopped). left atrium 6. 4 cm. will the afib lead to heart failure?
i really can't say what the risk of heart failure is for your husband. i would need more information and test results. in fact one reason for a difibulator is heart failure. atrial fibrillation can definitely impact heart failure. but there are many in heart failure w/o afib. other issues: does he still have mitral regurgitation? did he have complete maze? how big is his lv?
my husband has perm a-fib. has had maze conversions hcm mitral repair pacemaker/defib tikosyn (dofetilide) (stopped). left atrium 6. 4 cm. will the afib lead to heart failure?
with a left atrial size of >5 cm he is in a high risk category. there is an nih trial that compares a number of procedures and summarizes the latest thinking on surgical and electrophysiological approaches to the problem: <link> ask your husband's cardiologist to check into this trial. it might be the best bet for him!
my husband has perm a-fib. has had maze conversions hcm mitral repair pacemaker/defib tikosyn (dofetilide) (stopped). left atrium 6. 4 cm. will the afib lead to heart failure?
if heart rates can be controlled.
my husband has perm a-fib. has had maze conversions hcm mitral repair pacemaker/defib tikosyn (dofetilide) (stopped). left atrium 6. 4 cm. will the afib lead to heart failure?
your husband has had several intervention. if his lv function is normal then the likelihood of congestive heart failure is low. as he does have hcm he may develop heart failure if his heart rate is not controlled. for hcm he needs medical therapy to prevent diastolic heart failure. to manage all his problems he needs to see a cardiologist on a regular basis. good luck!
my 62yo mom diagnosed with chf and living with pacemaker is having atrial fibrillations esp at night for which she takes 25mg of atenol. is it safe?
atenolol will help keep down the rate of atrial fibrillation but if your mom has what we call systolic heart failure (usually with a low "ef" measured on an imaging test) she'll be expected to see better survival and health benefits taking either toprol (metoprolol) xl or coreg (carvedilol) instead of atenolol. coreg is as cheap as atenolol if bought at $4 pharmacies. if the ef is not low it doesn't matter.
my husband has mitral valve prolapse moderate with atrial fib events reqiring cardio version about yearly. should he have it fixed?
mvp is relatively common. what dictates valve surgery is the degree of valve rgurgitations flail of the leaflet symptoms of heart failure heart function. i suggest monitoring and evaluation by a cardiologist.
what is benazripril hydrochloride?
benezapril is a medication that is often used to treat high blood pressure congestive heart failure. it also uses to prevent kidney disease in diabetic patients. it belongs to a class of medication called ace inhibitor because of the way it works.
how serious is an occlusion of the left circumflex artery if your heart is left-side dominant? would an mi from that likely be fatal?
left dominance means the circumflex artery supplies the major back portion of the heart rather than the right artery so occlusion of this artery compromise a large area of heart muscle that can lead to death by fatal arrhythmia or by heart failure
will accupril (quinapril) lower my rapid heart beat?
if accupril (quinapril) (or any ace inh) is given for blood pressure the heart rate will not change. only beta blockers and some calcium channel blockers will do that. however: if accupril (quinapril) is given for heart failure it is possible that when chf is better compensated the heart rate will be lower due to the better compensated chf and not by direct effect of the medication.
how many pvcs in a minute are dangerous?
it's not just the number but if you are having symptoms such as dizziness palpitations or syncope. if the pvc count is more than 15 000 per day this could cause heart failure over time. please see an ep cardiac specialist!
how many pvcs in a minute are dangerous?
first able it is very important to know if the heart is normal or abnormal. in normal hearts few pvc's may cause a lot of symptoms but several may not. more than 20000 pvcs x minute is associated with heart failure. after a heart attack more than 10 pvcs x minute is associated with higher cardiovascular risk.
had cto of lad opened. 1 doc said take betablocker 1 said no need. no known heart attack or high bp. what is betablocker benefit or indication here?
there is no evidence that beta locker has particular benefit inthe absence of angina arrhythmia or heart failures. its proven benefit is following a heart attack.
is pain in the carotid artery a sign of heart failure with frequent pvc's faintness fast heart rate and bloating?
disease in itself has no symptoms; it causes symptoms when blood flow to the brain is decreased because of it. perhaps you are having neck pain near the location of the carotid artery but i would not interpret that as a sign of heart failure or cause of pvc's. certainly frequent pvc's might be a sign of more serious dysrhythmia causing faintness/fast heart rate. you need to continue cardiac care
if echocardiogram full blood count and bnp are normal & there has been no swelling is heart failure unlikely even if other symptoms are present?
heart failures. but it is pretty unlikely with all of those being normal. high thyroid severe thiamine deficiency severe dehydration can cause heart failure but i think they would still show something (like elevated bnp).
my mom is 72 years old she has diabetes congestive heart failure her ekg came back with fluid and heart enlarged. how should we proceed?
she needs to be evaluated completely by a cardiologist with an echocardiogram as the first step and laboratory data and exam. depending upon the results of the above one can proceed with appropriate medical therapy.
my cardiologist prescribed a med for atrial flutter but not blood thinners. he said my echo is perfectly normal. should i be on blood thinners anyway?
anticoagulation (blood thinner) is prescribed to prevent stroke in atrial fibrillation and flutter. need for such treatment depends on risk vs. benefit. patients with diabetes hypertension prior stoke or tia congestive heart failure vascular disease and older would be at higher risk. if your doctor did not recommend anticoagulation for you it is possibly due to your risk profile.
my doctor & his nurse say my newly diagnosed afib is not harmful. they said i could take metoprolol or not. no blood thinners prescribed. i'm confused?
the relative risk for throwing clots (thromboembolism) needs to be considered in all patients with afib. your relative youth makes clotting less a concern probably making them give you just a rate control med like metoprolol. should look at the chadsvasc scoring system and make sure no other risks. this included ade diabeteses hypertension prior stroke female sex heart failure as importan.
would an ekg show congestive heart failure?
low voltage in an ekg suggest cardiomyopathy. which goes by the hand with heart failure. - in addition electrical alternans in the ekg is also suggestive of heart failure
would an ekg show congestive heart failure?
i would respectfully provide an alternate view from the previous respondents. while their answers were factually correct pls remember that heart failure is a clinical diagnosis and an ekg is an overall minor component of that assessment. eg: heart failure can be from ischemia and we can see that on an ekg but at least half of hf cases are with preserved ejection fraction & an ekg can't help that.
will atrial fibrillation make my heart failure worse if i don't get it cardioverted?
afib decreases cardiac output about 5%
what are the benefit from having stem cells after a heart attack?
to my knowledge there has been no experimental proof of benefit for stem cell therapy (sct). sct is still in its infancy & very expensive so weigh the potential benefits against that. stem cells are touted to replace / regenerate damaged cells so theoretically u cd improve the heart's function & avoid heart failure; but again sct is unproven & needs to be tested. thanks for ur question on ht!
would heart failure cause abnormal troponin blood level?
yes. heart failure exacerbations can present with elevated troponins
what causes my to smell dirt all the time? . i have had a heart attack and congestive heart failure. just wanted to know if it was related or not.
may be the side effect of some medications. hope you are doing better with your heart conditions. please take medicines regular exercise as prescribed by cardiologist restrict salt to prevent excerbation of chf maintain weight as close to ideal body weight and control the cholesterol
i'm 30 years old and my pulse rate when i got home from work was 113 is that too high?
a pulse of 113 is high if you have been at rest. however it may be normal if you were exerting yourself or rushing. some of the reasons the heart rate can be faster than normal: anxiety smoking(nicotine) alcohol medication side effect(including otc cough and cold medicines) fever pregnancy caffeine over active thyroid gland congestive heart failure
male 22. get pvc's often. had ecg 24hecg stress ecg echo cardiac mri/mra. safe to ignore the pvc's? its a quick skipped beat feeling.
if pvcs are asymptomatic and rate is more than 10% of your heart rate in 24 hours then it should be treated. otherwise it could cause heart failure (tachycardia induced cardiomyopathy). if you have symptomatic pvcs then it should be treated irrespective of frequency of pvcs. you need electrolyte check up. if normal then you need medications. if medication is not effective then you need ablation.
mom in law has pacemaker docs took 800 cc of fluid out her body the right side of her heart and atries to her heart is damaged wore out will she be ok?
in general right heart failure can be difficult to treat. her treating physicians who have seen her test results and examined her can give you a better answer about prognosis.
my son age 35 has anxiety. physical: normal bp but high (100) heart rate. no hyperthyroidism. other physical causes of both? beta blocker help?
good run down in space allowed! other considerations include infection heart failure av fistua anemia malnutrition or most any underlying chronic illness. anxiety is likely but is a dx of exclusion. a lipophilic beta blocker like propranolol can help. xanax (alprazolam) is also used rather than valium.
my resting heart rate is between 110 and 120. is this normal? i am 5'9" and 120 lbs. 34 female.
it is not normal. it can be a side effect of quetiapine. a search for other causes is reasonable: thyroid excess anemia fever infection emotional upset and pain are typical. more ominous causes include av fistula congestive heart failure or sepsis. a 24 hr heart recording would be helpful (to see your hr during sleep).
what is the difference between a heart attack heart failure and cardiac arrest?
a heart attack is when a blood vessel to the heart blocks off and a part of the heart is damaged. a cardiac arrest can be the result of a heart attack. cardiac arrest is when the heart suddenly stops pumping for one reason or another. a heart attack can cause cardiac arrest. a cardiac arrest isn't necessarily caused by a heart attack. heart failure is when the heart can't supply the body's demands
wheezy chest heart rate is fast. every time she coughs she vomits. can't stand for too long what shall i do?
take her to a physician asap urgent care or er. she may have asthma pertussis heart failure pneumonia. time to get an exam and xray. keep her hydrated with fluids. vomiting losses need extra fluids to make up for them. in the er iv fluids can be given and at least anti-emetics to ease the nausea and vomiting and anti-tussives to ease the coughing.
what are the differences between iridoid glycoside and cardiac glycoside?
you probably mean amino glycoside which is an antibiotic against gram - bacteria and cardio glycoside which is used for heart failure and irregular heart beats by helping heart contractions.
what is the difference between cardiac arrest a heart attack and heart failure?
cardiac arrest: pumping or rhythm abnormality so severe that the flow of blood thought the heart is super low or zero - incompatible with life unless successfully treated. heaty attack - region of heart muscle get less oxygen than it needs so the muscle dies. heart failure - heart is unable to adequately deliver oxygen to the body or requires an unhealthy amount of filling pressure to do so.
how should dosing of prazosin be increased? currently on 2mg/3x/day. is it one additional pill per day (1/6 increase) or 3 additional (1/3 increase)?
for congestive heart failure initial dose: 1 mg orally 2-3 times a day. maintenance dose: 6-15 mg daily given in divided doses. for hypertension initial dose: 1 mg orally 2-3 times a day. maintenance dose: 6-15 mg daily given in divided doses. for benign prostatic hyperplasia initial dose: 1 mg orally 2-3 times a day. maintenance dose: 6-15 m
i have chf. i had a massive heart attack in 2014. will the chf go away or will i always have it? like have flare ups with it?
chf is heart failure when a heart attack destroys heart muscle. in a large heart attack your hearts ability to pump blood is reduced hence heart failure. this causes fluid to build up in your lungs/legs etc. medications help and some heart function recovers over time but generally this is a stable to worsening problem. avoid salt eat healthy restrict your fluids and exercise and take meds.
my esr level is 2. i am concerned about congestive heart failure. i have had an ekg and chest x ray both okay. is heart failure still a possibility?
although people talk about congestive heart failure being associated with a low esr (sed rate) there typically is not really a sed rate that is abnormally low. a normal esr for a young woman in most labs is 0-20 mm/hr. the finding of an esr of 2 should not warrant a heart failure evaluation. if you have no symptoms of heart failure don't worry.
my esr level is 2. i am concerned about congestive heart failure. i have had an ekg and chest x ray both okay. is heart failure still a possibility?
this question does not provide sufficient info to exclude heart disease nor does it provide even a remote suggestion that a 27 year old woman would develop chf without some severe underlying clinical problem. you are overthinking this and need to find out why the level of concern. after discussing with you doctor you might consider seeing a clinical psychologist or psychiatrist. good luck.
my bnp level is 319. is this considered serious or some kind of trend later in life for chf?
bnp=brain natriuretic peptide is a neuro hormone produced by heart ventricles. it is diagnostic ; prognostic marker. your 319 means you have mild heart failure;can get worse. bnp901=severe chf. please avoid alcohol. bnp is also for treatment of chf.
my bnp level is 319. is this considered serious or some kind of trend later in life for chf?
bnp has may causes like kidney failure increase pressure in the lungs and many other. bnp level doesn't predict who will go into heart failure.
my bnp level is 319. is this considered serious or some kind of trend later in life for chf?
a bnp greater than 500 is a positive predictor of congestive heart failure. between 100 and 500 we must consider left or right ventricular dysfunction or kidney insufficiency. it may also be elevated in lung disease including acute pulmonary embolism.
my relative just got an icd and they keep telling him to stop eating any salt is not eating salt permanent?
it is generally recommended for heart failure patients to consume less than 2000 mg of sodium (salt) per day. this helps prevent fluid accumulation in the lungs legs and abdomen which can lead to hospitalizations for congestive heart failure. the icd was probably implanted for severe heart failure in your relative.
what drugs should post-mi patients take?
at least aspirin beta blockers and ace inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers. if they had stents add antiplatelet agents (clopidogrel) if ldl cholesterol high (and even if normal): statins. plenty more medications if they developed heart failure.
what is the therapeutic effect of beta blockers for heart failure?
slowing of the heart rate allows longer filling time in diastole for the heart to pump a larger volume of blood with the next heart beat. also as blood pressure lowering agent lower resistance for the heart to pump against improves efficiency of the "failing" heart.
had a bi ventricular icd implanted after diagnosis of stage 3 cgf caused by lbbb & severe dcm. i have improved and my ef is now 25%. i'm 63. prognosis?
although your ef is still low the prognosis depends on your medical therapy and symptoms. so if you are not having any symptoms of heart failure or shortness of breath no edema and taking your meds your prognosis is not as bad as thought. it is important to follow all the instructions of your cardiologist including diet exercise and avoidance of alcohol.
husband has high bp and an enlarged left ventricle. he started bp meds yesterday:olmetec. he has been a high endurance biker? heart due to this or bp?
need to know more details of your husband's condition. his "enlarged left ventricle" may be from exercise or may be some heart failure. i would be happy to help out if you consult me and we can discuss it!
my dr. prescribed propranolol as needed. i know it slows your heart rate and an adr is heart failure. should i be worried about taking it?
to answer your question we need to know why the propranolol was prescribed.
my dadis 60 years had a large heart attack and heart failure has to have a stent in his coronary artery what are the chances of survival of operation?
in the right hands
my dad hd a heart attack 2 weeks ago and had was int. c. u and had stents. prior to hospital he had ankle edema but now his lower legs are bones causes?
when you say his lower legs are bones do you mean you can now see the normal bony landmarks of the ankle? ie it's become normal? he sounds like he had congestive heart failure with ankle edema and it's been properly treated in hospital. is this what you were asking?
why is propranolol less expensive than atacand (candesartan)?
propranolol is a generic beta blocker that lowers blood pressure & heart rate. if you're physically active it may not be best drug unless you have palpitations or racing heart. atacand is a brand of candesartan (<link> which is an arb which lowers bp & protects both kidneys & heart useful in diabetes & heart failure. generics are typically less expensive than brand
what could cause fluid in and around the lungs and an erratic racing heartbeat?
congestive heart failure pneumonia protein deficiency are but three there are more possibilities
i have been told i have s3 and gallop heart. what is this and what can i do about it?
this is a clinical sign of congestive heart failure; a very serious condition with markedly reduced life expectancy. it is vital to determine the cause and take treatment as the prognosis can be considerably improved
is there a relationship between coq10 use and reduction of svt episodes (specifically focal atrial tachycardia) and if so what would be the recommend?
no clinical trials (sponsored by independent organizations) have ever shown any benefit for coq10 supplements including for people taking statins. only a single trial sponsored by marketers of coq10 supplements has been interpreted as showing slight benefit for people with advanced class 4 congestive heart failure. lots of marketing science support for eicosapentaenoic acid; not for coq10.
my pressure last few days was high highest 167 /100. but after taking water pill which u missed for a few weeks now my pressure went diwn to 136/74 after taking ekg and ultra sound which prvd semigood?
there are many bp meds including diuretics (water pills) that are only $4 at chain pharmacies. there's no reason for most people with high bp to run out. keeping bp under control is important for bp as high as yours to prevent stroke heart failure and kidney failure.
so my grandfather is 89 and diabetic and he dosent like to show pain what are signs he might be having a heart attack?
sometimes no symptoms may be present. more often exertional fatigue loss of energy shortness of breath heart burn nausea chest tightness may be signs. occassional congestive heart failure manifesting as swelling of legs sob and trouble laying flat may develop.
should i get my heart checked? my heart flutters a lot at least 8-15 times a day if not more. its starting to really worry me.? could you please give me some answers.
fluttering heartbeats are generally termed palpitations and can be triggered by stress exercise medication or sometimes by an underlying medical condition. they are usually harmless. they can be a symptom of a more serious heart condition such as an irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia) that may require treatment. since you have frequent palpitations you should see to your doctor to see if you need heart-monitoring tests to see if your palpitations are caused by a more serious heart problem. this evaluation could be urgently needed if your palpitations are accompanied by chest pain shortness of breath fainting or dizziness. palpitations can be caused by stress or anxiety exercise fever caffeine nicotine or stimulants in some medications. occasionally heart palpitations are a sign of a serious problem such as an overactive thyroid gland or an arrhythmia. arrhythmias can be very fast unusually slow an irregular heart rhythm (atrial fibrillation). atrial fibrillation can be a sign of underlying heart disease such as mitral valve disease or other conditions that can cause stretching of the atria â€” the upper chambers of the heart. a cardiologistâ€™s evaluation and an echocardiogram are often useful in ruling out some structural disease affecting your heart. if there is no structural heart disease then the principal risk of atrial fibrillation is that blood clots may form in areas of the heart that are not contracting and possibly travel through the bloodstream to cause a stroke. this risk of a stroke is increased if you are over 65 years old; if you have high blood pressure; if you are female; if you have had a prior stroke transient ischemic attack (or tia â€” a fleeting stroke) or other blood clot disorder; if you have diabetes; if you have heart failure; or if you have known vascular disease (heart attack aneurysm or limitation of blood flow to the legs). the more risk factors you have the higher your risk of a stroke. with one risk factor many physicians will recommend aspirin therapy or sometimes more potent blood thinners. with two or more risk factors blood thinners are usually recommended. this should be discussed in detail with your doctor. unless your palpitations signify of an underlying heart condition there's little risk but if there is an underlying heart condition possible complications include fainting stroke heart failure or it can cause your heart to stop beating effectively.
symptoms: heart palpitations waning nausea shortness of breath fatigue. i thought i had the flu until it never went away. what else could it be?
your symptoms could be the sign of heart disease such as arrhythmia or heart failure. you need to get it checked as soon as possible.
should i get tests for cardiomyopathy heart and blood pressure routinely at 88?
evaluation for heart failure and cardiomyopathy are not routine at any age. therefore unless you are having symptoms of heart failure such as shortness of breath exertional shorteness of breath decreased exertional tolerance chest pain or palpitations you need only have a routine physical exam which would include a measure of your blood pressure.
should i get myself tested for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy?
only if you have a family history of a relative who has suffered from sudden cardiac death or you yourself have a heart murmur or been diagnosed with heart failure or a significant cardiac rhythm disturbance do you need to be tested for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
swelling and tingling in both legs blood pressure is normal ekg normal taking water pills and wore compression stockings no improvement?
assuming this is idiopathic edema ( no heart failure no liver failure no significant protein in urine and no significant impedance to venous return) the treatment is salt restriction - 2 g/day elevation compression and possibly diuretics. there is no quick fix. make sure you are not taking meds which can make this worse - calcium channel blockers and non steroidals.
will methaphetmine use with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy cause heart failure?
this is like pouring gasoline on a fire. this takes a heart muscle that is wearing out and stimulates it to work harder. to me its just another way to commit suicide.
how is digitalis used in medicine?
the drug digitalis which in a refined form is digitalis is one of the oldest poisons used by man. the ancient egyptians called in 'bulls blood' and killed with it. it must be used properly in tightly controlled dosage and followed by the physician. it has been used for rate control and congestive heart failure predominantly. recent popularity has declined significantly
how does one get weend off digoxin and metropolol?
of your doctors. remember these are important medications often used to help with heart rate control blood pressure control and heart failure. don't attempt to wean yourself off of these without explicit instructions from your doctor(s). best of luck.
high blood pressure 150/85. and racing heart rate 125. blood work done everything came back normal ct scan is normal and urine was normal.
assuming those measurements are at complete rest and assuming the ekg shows that the heart rate is due to nl conduction (sinus tachycardia) then the abnormalities are considered "reactive" ie due to something else. some considerations include: fever anemia pain anxiety xs thyroid alcohol withdrawal. more ominous considerations: congestive heart failure sepsis dka. this list isn't all.
my friends mom just had a mi. her blood pressure was 9<negative_smiley>19. said the reason why it was so low is because some med they are giving her. true?
hi. in the post mi state there are a number of drugs on board that lower bp. also it it possible that if enough heart muscle has been damaged from the mi that pump function has been diminished (called congestive heart failure chf) bp can be low from that. her cardiologist can tell you if there appears to be any chf from her echo or her cath or other studies they may have done. good luck to her
secondary hyper aldsoterone - can it be left untreated without side effects in the future?
secondary hyperaldosteronism occurs in renal artery stenosis dehyration liver cirrhosis heart failure and other causes. treatment is for symptoms rather than for treating the number.
seeing pulmonarologist tomorrow for sob. chest x-ray ekg and blood work all normal. could it be asthma copd or emphysema? gp said lungs sound clear
it could be anything asthma copd emphysema or congestive heart failure etc. good that you are going to a pulmonologist for thorough check up.
what should my resting heart rate be with chf?
ideally below 70 beats per minute. but there is no hard fast rule. a new drug corlanor was just approved for heart failure patients with elevated heart rates greater than 70. it was shown to reduce hospitalization a. good luck!
what are the pros and cons of toprol (metoprolol) xl (beta blocker)?
pros: effective in lowering bp; effective in treating and preventing fast heart rhythms; effective in patients who have heart failure at high doses. cons: can cause fatigue lethargy and slow heart rate; can cause dizziness; can cause depression or worsen depression in some patients. i would not recommend it as first line therapy in an otherwise healthy person unless there are other issues.
if i have frequent unsustained svt's and frequent pac's uncured by medication. and i don't want the cardiac ablation. what are the consequences of not having this invasive procedure?
the risks of untreated arrhythmia include your heart being unable to beat well enough to maintain your blood pressure stroke heart attack heart failure falls. the benefits of ablation far outweigh the relative risks. stay calm and please reconsider ablation. you can do it and the cardiologists are great at it.
i'm apx 10 weeks pregnant and have congestive heart failure buergers disease and a pacemaker. is it possible to have a full term pregnancy?
due to these conditions yours will be seen as high risk and all your dr(s) - obgyn cardios etc need to work together. quit smoking if you still do! the rare disease you name is even more rare in females so risks will be unknown but w/ good care and your full compliance it's probably possible - but prepared to have lots of help for perhaps a few years. good luck! best wishes.
is heart failure associated with ventricular diastolic dysfunction and are betablockers a way forward to help in the management or stopping it?
beta blockers help systolic dysfunction chf. they haven't proven to be that effective in diastolic dysfunction chf.
my pulse pressure is regularly 50 - 60. how can i reduce this to 30 - 40? more exercise?
the pulse pressure is defines as the difference between higher and lower bp measurements. higher puls epressures have been associated with such diseases as alzheimers while lower pulse pressure is an undesirable finding in patients with heart failure. the widened pulse pressure may occur naturally in young healthy people provided they are not clinically hypertensive. with exercises bp increases
was on metoprolol xr 100 mg bid and 80 mg lasix (furosemide). cardiologist reduced lasix (furosemide) to 40 mg but bp is higher at night. should i ask pcp to increase metoprolol? cardiologist did not spend more than 2 minutes and wash in rush.
your regimen suggests that you also suffer from heart failure. if the lasix (furosemide) was reduced it may be due to concerns of worsening kidney function. some patients with heart failure have an initial worsening of symptoms when the metoprolol dose is increased causing the need for an increase in the lasix (furosemide) dose. your analysis is correct though. you need something more if your pressure remains high.
what is effect of prolonged usage of metoprolol?
hello ugonzalez i saw your question and wanted to help you out. metoprolol is a great medication for blood pressure tremors heart failure or heart disease but it does have side effects like all drugs. shortness of breath erectile dysfunction insomnia and depression are rare and associated with long term use. you should see your md if you have any of those symptoms. good luck to you <positive_smiley>
what happens when you suddenly stop taking blood pressure meds such as beta blockers for two weeks? i have heart palpitations and severe nausea now
beta blockers usually completely out of body by 2-3 days. question is why do you take the beta blocker? if you take because of palpitations they may return. if you take them for heart failure that may get worse. if you take them because of coronary heart disease that may become symptomatic. nausea can be a sign of coronary disease you are only 34 still possible. never just stop must taper
what are differences of metoprolol and amlodipine?
metoprolol is in a class of drugs called beta blockers and it works to lower blood pressure by lowering a person’s heart rate. it’s also used for controlling chest pain and treating heart failure. amlodipine is in a class called calcium channel blockers and it lowers blood pressure by expanding the blood vessels improving congestion. it’s also used to prevent chest pain.
how symptomatic is someone with mild global hypokinesis of left ventricle?
mild global hypokinesis refers to heart function where higher is better. less than 50% is typically referred to as heart failure. however there might be no symptoms noted especially if patient is sedentary. we traditionally use new york heart association classification to describe heart failure. check out <link> for more info. best to follow up w/family doc & cardiologist for care
hi! i have trouble differentiating the cardiogenic shock and the heart failure; is it right to see the heart failure as a pre-shock state?
profession? cardio genic shock is a very serious condition. like major heart attack or severe arrhythmia where heart itself is not able to pump blood and needs extr ordinary measures to revive cardiac function. one would be in er/icu/or under care ofparamedics. heart failure is usually a chronic condition due to under lying problem with heart. can get exacerbated at times.
hi! i have trouble differentiating the cardiogenic shock and the heart failure; is it right to see the heart failure as a pre-shock state?
shock is when organs are shutting down with secondary consequences of inflammation generally heart output is quite low. heart failure is just not enough circulation (implied to be due to not enough pumping effective action) and output can be normal slightly low even elevated if the blood doesn't get to organs. you can get shock out of the blue (heart attack bullet poison) from being totally ok
how is dystolic dysfunction treated and is it a permanent condition?
medications to improve the compliance of the heart. drugs like beta blockers and calcium blockers can be effective. symptoms of heart failure due to diastolic dysfunction are treated with diuretics. at your age it would be considered irreversible.
had chest x ray and blood work and ekg 1 month ago. all normal. now have developed pitting edema in legs and ankles. could this be heart failure?
right heart failure is one of the causes of lower extremity edema. there are others such as venous incompetence or obstruction protein deficiency and others.
had chest x ray and blood work and ekg 1 month ago. all normal. now have developed pitting edema in legs and ankles. could this be heart failure?
if you have developed sudden swelling in both legs you need to be checked right away to find out what is going on. as dr. weisberger says chf is just one of the problems. we don't know what meds you are on or whether you drink alcohol or smoke or take any meds so it's not possible to say what else it could be. since chf is just one of the possibilities and a very serious one get seen.
inspra for primary idiopathic hyperaldosteronism. is this a good treatment? my b/p isn't too high but i have chronic low potassium & arrhythmia.
greetings matthew-inspra is an aldosterone blocker used to treat patients with hypertension and heart failure but is often used in the medical treatment of hyperaldosteronism. it is more selective in blocking aldosterone than other older drugs in this class. having a thorough work up for hyperaldosteronism is very important. best regards.
i have been on bp meds since age 25. now i'm always tired breathless and feel tightness in my chest. i take co micadis 80/12. 5 and atenolol 25mg?
now? these symptoms should be attended to asap! you may be having symptoms of early congestive heart failure or possible coronary insuffciency! see your cardiologist. . it's time for a stress test etc hope this helps! be well dr z
my dad is suffering with hernia by the groin his doctor told us that he can't do anything since he is in heart failure and had a pace maker in place.
that is not entirely true. that is a fairly low risk surgery usually done as an outpatient. i would consult with a surgeon to discuss his options and see his cardiologist for surgical clearance. hope that helps
swelling in my fingers in morning gurgling in chest fatigue. ekg blood work doc listened to lungs and heart all was fine. could this be heart failure?
failure of esophageal sphincter or esophageal dysmotility could cause gugling sounds in the chest. swelling of fingers could be sclerodactyly. therse featutres we could see in crest syndrome. your physician could consider this indifferential diagnosis. there are other reasons too.
heard and am paranoid about pulsus alternans would auscultation with stethoscope by doc be enough to rule it out?
"pulsus alternans" describes alternating stronger/weaker arterial pulse waves. generally a sign of very poor heart function & would not be the only sign; a patient with pulsus alternans would also be sick with fatigue shortness of breath & other signs of heart failure. on the other hand there are other conditions which might mimic pulsus alternans (eg atrial or ventricular bigeminy).
if left ejection fraction is maintained in diastolic heart failure why is the cardiac output decreased?
in diastolic dysfunction the heart muscle tends to be stiff so that it doesn't "relax" well and fill with blood. so even if the heart can pump blood forward ok if it doesn't fill up appropriately then it won't function optimally.
my father was unable to have open heart surgery yesterday his heart was too destroyed. they gave him a 40% chance to live what does that mean? the say he needs a new heart or he will die he is not on the transplant list and his defibrillator goes off da
take your father to an academic center in your state with heart failure capabilities for treatment & best chance for survival
my mum long ago she had a heart attack. she can't see with her right eye she can't remember stuff easily and lately she has been breathing very hard?
your mother's symptoms may or may not be related to her history of heart disease. patient with a history of heart attack are usually at risk for other problems such as heart failure stroke and kidney disease.
possible causes for shortness of breath and irregular heart rate 85 yo male has high bp and hiadle hernia? resting rate of 46 but was 85-130
afib is a likely cause. congestive heart failure heart block which might need a pacemaker and coronary artery blockages are also concerns. he needs to see a doctor and get an ekg and poss some other tests as well.
please describe the medication: coreg (carvedilol)?
it ia brand name for beta blocker carvediol used to treat hypertension and congestive heart failure. it is different from other beta blockers as it also has alpha blocker properties. so it is both beta blocker(b1 b2) and alpha blocker.
please describe the medication: digitek (digoxin)?
this is a branded form of digoxin or digitalis which is a medicine used to regulate heart rate. most often to control heart rate in patients with atrial fibrillation. on occasion it is used to improve contractility or pumping in patients with heart failure. it was obtained from the digitalis or foxglove plant.
please describe the medication: digitek (digoxin)?
digitek is one of the generic versions of the drug digoxin. digoxin is one of the many compounds found in the foxglove plans. digoxin is used to improve the symptoms of congestive heart failure and is also used to treat atrial heart arrhythmias.
please describe the medication: lanoxin (digoxin)?
lanoxin is the brand name for digoxin which comes from the foxglove plant. it is most often used to treat congestive heart failure and atrial arrhythmias.
please describe the medication: digoxin?
digoxin is one of the compounds that is found in the foxglove plant. digoxin is used primarily for two reasons: for congestive heart failure where it can increase the force of the heart muscle to it can more efficiently pump blood to the vital organs of the body; secondly it can be used to slow down the heart in some instances when the atria beats too fast. digoxin must be dosed very carefully.
my heart rate is really good when waking up and throughout the night 60-70 but throughout the day it stays near 105-110. should i be concerned?
yes you should be concerned. sounds like from things like mental stress anxiety panic attack etc but could be from anything else. if it is related to pathological problems like hyperthyrodism heart rate would be high even during sleep. high heart rate for long time is a problem regardless of any cause as it cause heart failure from tachycardia induced cardiomyopathy. i would do further testing
propranolol 60 mg er vs toprol (metoprolol) 25 mg er. which lowers blood pressure most?
this is a question best addressed w/your doctor. both are good blood pressure lowering medications that also keep your heart from beating too fast (beta blocker class). toprol (metoprolol) has more studies recently regarding benefit in heart failure. of course cost can play into decision too although both are available as generics for $4/mo (<link>
please tell me could you explain me what's the difference between heart attack and heart failure?
heart attack is also called myocardial infarction. it is death of some amount of heart muscle caused by blockage of a heart artery and can result in sudden death. heart failure is when the heart is not pumping adequately to supply the body's need for blood flow. it can be caused by heart attack or other abnormalities.
some people experience palps after eating heavy meals that are rich in carb sugar fat high level of msg nitrates & sodium (webmd. com). why could?
carbs and sugar effect changes in insulin and blood sugar levels which when abnormal can cause palpitations. smg and sodium causes salt and fluid retention high blood pressure and heart failure with palpitations. nitrates cause asthma and allergies in some. i'm not aware of fat causing immediate palpitations.
treatment for dilated cardiomyopathy in children?
medications such as ace inhibitors diuretics beta blockers and digoxin are used to control heart failure symptoms. anticogulation is usually needed. treatment is similar in adults and children. in severe cases a transplant may be an option.
what does drinking pickle juice do to help the body? will it help lower blood pressure levels of 152/100 with a pulse of 110 for a female 24 years of
largely this is nonsense; i'd expect it contains electrolytes readily available elsewhere large amount of sodium risking those with hypertension or heart failure ;acid ph to dissolve your dental enamel etc etc!
have chf. most recent bnp is 14. 1. is this a good result?
i'm going to assume this is picograms per ml. if so this is good and that your illness is at least controlled fairly well or going into remission. i hope that a treatable cause of your congestive heart failure is found. best wishes.
heart rate high 120 at rest. can't do any activity. when walk a little have to stop. sometimes chest pain and sweat. i take diltazem240 not help
for how long you had these symptoms. you are describing typical symptoms of congestive heart failure. a heart rate of 120 is very abnormal if is irregular you may have uncontrolled atrial fibrillation. you should see a cardiologist like today or go to an er now. do not waist time as other conditions may be present. you may require cardiac cardioversion. l
hi. i'm a non english speaker ; so i hope you'll be indulgent. my 21 years old daughter has arrhythmia and dyspnea since yesterday. what can it be?
many things could be going on but heart failure is adistnct possibility - see a cardiologist as soon as possible go to an emergency room and get yourself examined etc. you may be in seriously poor health!
i just got diagnosed with chf two weeks ago. i am on propanalol ptu [hyperthyroid] and xarelto. can i drink 2 beers? i'm anxious and don't xanax
i hope you are well. you are on medications that interact with each other (propranolol and ptu) and adding alcohol would worsen the interactions. the effects of propranolol are increased by alcohol. propranolol can worsen heart failure. ptu can also increase the effects of propranolol. i suggest that you have a medication review with your primary care professional asap. i hope this helps.
my mother has irregular heartbeats and takes fluid tables (plus loads more). is there a chance i could get this? ive had a ecg but that came out fine.
but i suspect you are hinting that your mother has "heart failure" thereby taking "loads of pills" including water pills and has an arrhythmia from scar and/or an enlarged heart. therefore a resting ecg alone is no guarantee that there is not a genetic form of heart failure here. therefore i recommend finding out exactly your mothers diagnosis and then if it's hereditary see a cardiologist.
persistent asymptomatic (severe) hypertension (>200/100) past fortnight when to treat? how important is treatment? high risk ptnt-iddm mi ht esrd+pd
bp is extremely high-- increased risk for stroke heart failure. discuss with nephrologist about bp meds as soon as possible. if you develop chest pain shortness of breath weakness of arms or legs or slurred speech go to er
please explain why does my heart beat really fast for no reason sometimes?
causes of tachycardia are anxiety panic disorder high blood pressure poor blood supply to the heart muscle due to coronary artery disease (atherosclerosis) heart valve disease heart failure heart muscle disease (cardiomyopathy) tumors or infections other medical conditions such as thyroid disease certain lung diseases electrolyte imbalance and alcohol or drugs.
please advise if it's likely that i will experience cardiac arrest or heart failure while i sleep after a caffeine overdose?
what happens to you after a caffeine overdose is highly dependent on your condition going into the od. if you were otherwise normal your risk would be far lower than if you had serious cardiac disease. overdosing on anything is bad.
please explain compensated heart failure/ dilated cardiomyopathy.
one or more chambers of the heart becomes dilated (frequently from uncontrolled blood pressure mi or bad valves). the heart gradually becomes insufficient as a pump usually because one side gets behind in it's work then pressure rises within the heart lungs or peripheral circulation. medication to improve the pump and/or reduce the volume to be pumped can compensate for the deficiency.
please explain compensated heart failure/ dilated cardiomyopathy.
hello with heart failure heart is not able to pump enough blood forward so the rest goes back to lungs abdomen and legs. legs get swollen and lungs get filled with fluid. we tell patients to restrict fluid and salt intake and also pee out extra fluid out with medications. this will dry them or compensated stage. decompensated stage is fluid overloaded stage. this fluid balance defines them.
please explain compensated heart failure/ dilated cardiomyopathy.
compensated heart failure means that the heart failure symptoms are controlled with medications (stable or not getting worse). it does not mean the heart failure has been cured. dilated cardiomyopathy refers to ballooning of the left ventricle (main pumping chamber) which can result in heart failure as the function deteriorates. this is measured by the ejection fraction.
prognosis of dilated cardiomyopathy with ejection fraction of 17 to 18 %?
prognosis depends on multiple factors not just ejection fraction. age severity of symptoms and especially cause of cardiomyopathy. cardiac function may improve in some with treatment. severely symptomatic heart failure carries a worse prognosis. best would be to discuss this with a heart failure specialist.
possible causes of high to low bp pitting edema sob ha's tightness to chest plus more sx's?
huge range of possibilities: kidney disease heart failure pulmonary hypertension coronary artery disease etc. discuss with a doctor soon.
sir may i know the reason for fast heart rate swelling legs and feet breathing problem in my mom. she is suffering a lot. can u please suggest me?
these sx sound like a significant heart problem could be present such as congestive heart failure. this is more a finding than a dx so see your doc asap for dx of cause and appropriate rx. good luck.
severe sob chestpain high/irregular heartrate weak arms/legs extreme fatigue. now swelling in abdomen/legs/feets. ok echo 4 months ago. right heartf?
right heart failure is certainly a possibility. you need to discuss your situation with your doctor and have more evaluation both for cardiac and other etiologies.
test came back ok just shows skipping heart beats dr wants me to take metoprolo but i decided not to take tired of meds what's gooing to happen to me.
unless you have coronary disease heart failure or over active thyroid there is no benefit to the metoprolol. make sure blood pressure is controlled. if you've started metoprolol you may need to gradually reduce the dose with doctor to avoid rebound fast heart rhythm more skipped beats or high blood pressure. go to er for chest pain dizzy passing out breathless very rapid heart rate.
what is atrial fibrillation a risk factor for?
congestive heart failure ischemic bowel disease sleep apnea transient ischemic attack stroke heart failure.
what does it mean if my heart rate was really high during exercise and stays at 110 over an hour and a half after exercise? is it anxiety?
=anxiety/fear/pain &/or congestive heart failure. heart rate controlled by brain. like rest of body heart follows orders from brain (many cycles/second). sensors from heart blood vessels rest of body provide extensive feedback to brain: a complex soul? mind? brain? body integrated system which allows life despite only partially understood. getting/studying an <link> could help.
what is a silent heart attack?
you may have never had any symptoms to warn you that you've developed a heart problem such as chest pain or shortness of breath. some people later recall their silent heart attack was mistaken for indigestion nausea muscle pain or a bad case of the flu. the risk factors for a silent heart attack are the same as those for a heart attack with symptoms. the risk factors include: smoking or chewing tobacco family history of heart disease age high cholesterol high blood pressure diabetes lack of exercise being overweight. having a silent heart attack puts you at a greater risk of having another heart attack which could be fatal. having another heart attack also increases your risk of complications such as heart failure. the only way to tell if you've had a silent heart attack is to have imaging tests such as an electrocardiogram echocardiogram or others. these tests can reveal changes that signal you've had a heart attack. if you wonder if you've had a silent heart attack talk to your doctor. a review of your symptoms health history and a physical exam can help your doctor decide if more tests are necessary. .
when used as a screening tool. does an nt-probnp of 135 pg/ml dicate heart failure in a 28 year old female. no other symptoms.
something is seriously wrong here. perhaps a misunderstanding. as a pathologist let me reassure you that the lab is an adjunct to the history and physical exam. you don't screen with labs for chf. you ask about exercise tolerance. and 300 is the cutoff below which chf is ruled out in sick people. most chf patients have it way-way-high.
i take propranolol 20 mg 3 times daily for svt after having a failed ablation. can longterm use of this medication cause heart failure?
take propranolol 20 mg 3 times daily for svt after having a failed ablation. can longterm use of this medication cause heart failure? ans: no. but svt can.
loc bleeding&collapsing lungs blood in kidneys arrythmia was on a vent bp sky rocketed back on vent. is this svt or goodpasture? 13yrsold. thoughts?
i'm not sure of the answer to your question in detail but supraventricular tachycardia (svt) did not cause all of these problems. supraventricular tachycardia is typically sensed as palpitations or the sensation of a fast heart beat. there may be exercise intolerance or there may be heart failure if there is prolonged svt (greater than 24 hours. ) svt rarely causes syncope.
my cardiologist wants me to take low dose of digoxin but i don't have heart failure or afib why does he want me to try it?
not sure as those two conditions are the most common reasons for prescribing digoxin. there are many better and newer medicines for whatever condition you may have that is heart related. i would ask him and if not happy with the answer find a new cardiologist.
my brother's heart stopped after 80% kidney stone surgery as per doctors and now treatment on that is going on. can u please explain why that happened?
i am not clear on what a "80% kidney stone" means but usually cardiac arrest during a procedure is related to anesthesia or medications given around the time of sedation. it is more likely if you have heart problems to begin with (heart disease heart failure etc. ) but sometimes bad luck happens even in the hospital so it could have been timing. best wishes hope all goes ok the 2nd time.
my 33 yr old son had a heart attack 10-15. he now has dx of chronic combined systolic and diastolic congestive heart failure. ef of 40. how serious?
heart failure caused by a prior myocardial infarction (heart attack) is a very serious problem. fortunately there are well-defined treatments including medications and procedures. patients with this condition should be under the care of a cardiologist. it may also help to get a second opinion here on healthtap to review treatment options.
postpartum cardiomyopathy patient of 3yrs ejection 25. i've been fatigued and today my heart rate is 118. should i go to the er?
it is reasonable to go to the er as your symptoms may be due to your underlying heart failure
resting heart rate as a young man was 50-55. doctors are considering a pace maker 2 years post heart attack?
your youth and cardiovascular conditioning are of historic interest. if you now have symptomatic slow pulse= bradycardia syncope heart failure etc. one may benefit from pacing. after a heart attack the electrical system of the heart can be damaged and one benefits from proper atrioventricular pacing or even dual pacing for chf.
sob chestpain fatigue weak arms/legs lately swollen abdomen and legs/feets in the evening. ecg shows tachycardia echo was normal 6 months ago?
any other more recent evaluation? without more information would have to suspect that the symptoms are related to heart failure although this would be uncommon in an otherwise healthy 29 year old. call your doctor tomorrow to be seen immediately or consider going the the emergency room today. if the emergent evaluation has been completed then enter a follow up with a bit more information.
signs of right heartfailure. recent ecg shows tachycardia with some extra heartbeats but otherwise normal. echo was normal 7 months ago?
whatever you are considering as signs of rhf are not stated here. a 'normal' echo would be unlikely in the face of real right heart failure. best to see a doctor personally and get your situation clarified.
stable heart failure but recently severe shortness of breath and his nt pro bnp result was 1940. recurrent heart failure?
perhaps a treatable cause for his deteriorating cardiac status can be found. i'm glad you're writing on his behalf and i hope you will have more good times with him for however much longer he may have.
what is the most likely cause of high pulse pressure(not resting) 180/90 in 75 old recent onset after being stable for 7 years after bypass operation?
you have systolic hypertension and a wide pulse pressure. both can be caused by stiff blood vessels. the best treatment is chlorthalidone which lowers stroke and congestive heart failure risk quickly. thus high salt in diet also likely drives this. i specialized in hbp in the elderly. happy to do 2nd opinion.
he has cogestive heart failure he had a cabg done in february 2016 i'm worried he is getting cramps breathing funny irregular heartbeat.
developed atrial fibrillation. with this heart history it would be advisable to make an appointment with his cardiologist as soon as possible for an evaluation. if symptoms worsen he should go to an emergency room.
hi i would like to know what does that means please b-type natriuretic peptide (bnp) (final result) = <10?
not sure why they did it. . but it says you likely are not having heart failure.
is it possible that you can have a healthy baby when you have congestive heart disease?
it depends on how bad of heart failure symptoms you have. heart failure specially if severe can be dangerous both for mom and the baby.
i am experiencing rapid heart rate and i was wondering if muscle relaxers specifically flexiril lower heart rate?
do not use flexeril (cyclobenzaprine) to lower your heart rate. in fact the opposite may occur. do not use flexeril if you have a heart rhythm disorder or you have recently had a heart attack; congestive heart failure; heart block; or a thyroid disorder. obtain a list of all side effects from a pharmacist and consult/follow-up your physician about taking this medication.
long term side effect of metoprolol?
metoprolol's side effects are largely short-term and related to it lowering heart rate and blood pressure. long-term adverse effects are not commonly known but there are long-term benefits. namely it lowers the risk of heart attack and stroke by reducing the pressure on your blood vessels. it can also prevent heart failure from getting worse in those who have it.
my husband has fought conjestive heart failure and low soduim and low potassium is it safe to be 121 in sodium?
normal lab reference ranges may vary but a sodium of 121 is likely low regardless of lab. a low sodium and potassium in setting of chf is likely due to use of diuretics to help remove fluids from his lungs. his doctors should be able to help normalize his sodium and potassium levels provided his heart condition can be stabilized and kidneys are functioning normally.
need expert help here. what are beta blockers mainly indicated for?
in addition to what dr. kasasbeh mentioned beta blockers are offered to those who've suffered a heart attack and/or heart failure regardless of their blood pressure. obviously we don't want their bp to drop too low such that they pass out but studies show that judicious use of beta blockers can prevent bad outcomes in these conditions. some are also used to prevent migraine headaches.
names of most suitable ssri antidepressant needed for multiinfarct stroke dementia patient 67 with minor congestive heart failure atrial fibrillation diabetes. dosage and duration info appreciated.
there is some evidence that ssris help with post stroke remodeling where the brain works on regrowing connections between brain areas that were not killed by the stroke. there is also evidence they help prevent post stroke depression that is very common. not much reason to think one ssri is better than another. see your prescriber for specific dosage recommendations.
names of most suitable ssri antidepressant needed for multiinfarct stroke dementia patient 67 with minor congestive heart failure atrial fibrillation diabetes. dosage and duration info appreciated.
i'd start with an anti-depressant from the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor group that have shown to be beneficial in cases of vascular dementia. either zoloft (sertraline) (starting at 12. 5 or 25 mg wth increase to 25 or 50 mg eventually and even higher doses) or celexa starting at 10 mg and then increasing to 20-40 mg eventually may be a good start.
names of most suitable ssri antidepressant needed for multiinfarct stroke dementia patient 67 with minor congestive heart failure atrial fibrillation diabetes. dosage and duration info appreciated.
one does not get mental health treatment on the internet. this is not how medicine works. treatment for these serious conditions must come from a physician who knows and is treating the patient. the health tap application clearly states that we cannot provide treatment advice.
patient has been on coreg and was just prescribed ventolin hfa on an as needed basis. is this combination okay? this is the only beta agonist the patient is on and i know that coreg can cause shortness of breath and maybe even asthma which is why i think
consider using healthtap prime to flesh out these answers. coreg (carvedilol) can cause shortness of breath but it is an important medication in the treatment of high blood pressure & heart failure. ventolin can counteract some of its (side) effects. coreg (carvedilol) generally spares the lungs but that isn't true for all people (some react to it differently than expected). there may be alternatives - talk to a doctor.
resting heart rate of 90-100 pulse feels slightly uneven & skips occasionally. should i worry? have been told i have pvcs & murmur years ago.
you need an ekg and holter. if you have pvcs >10% of total heart rate in 24 hours then you will be at risk for developing tachycardia induced heart failure. underlying causes of pvcs should be identified and treated. you need full physical exam and workup. consult your physician to get electrolyte check up ekg holter and echo.
right after i had my baby 2yr ago within the first 2 weeks i had heart palpitations. could i have had peripartum cardiomyopathy? can it just disappea
palpitations are common during and right after pregnancy. peripartum cardiomyopathy is a serious disorder usually manifest by symptoms of heart failure. if you have concerns make an appointment with your doctor to determine if any further testing is required at this time.
sometimes it feels like there is water in my lungs but it happens randomly and i can breath the same. it just feels weird and i don't know what it is.
what sensation you are describing. of course there are serious problems that cause actual fluid build up in the lungs which can be diagnosed by physical exam or x-ray such as pneumonia heart failure etc. but most of these would also cause shortness of breath/coughing etc. you may have a patch of inflammation which sounds/feels like rattling. it is worth a visit to your doctor for evaluation.
taking the toprol (metoprolol) 100 norvasc 5 lasix 20 for blood-pressure and diastolic chf. better meds (cozaar? ) or diuretics for diabetes and kidney conditions?
cozaar (losartan) or an ace inhibitor is better for diabetes. the best drug for diastolic heart failure is debatable. spironolactone is probably the better diuretic for diastolic heart failure.
was diagnosed in jan. w/ new lbbb. stress test & labs normal no further testing. now have sob and pounding heart when lying down. 39 yo fem smoker.
you need to see your doctor. may need further investigation. they need to find the cause for breathing issues wile lying down as could be a sign of congestive heart failure anxiety or obesity. will need rest x-rays and blood testing. you are a higher risk given that you are smoker. please consult your doctor.
would you operate on a 85 yr man with chf for tumor w/cancer in sigmoid colon 80 pd weight loss bad ekg too worried he won't make it what chance?
surgery can be done on 85 year olds depending on their cardio-pulmonary reserve. if his heart failure is well controlled and his ejection fraction is > 40% then surgery may be safe. alternatively primary chemotherapy can shrink localized colon cancer. go seek a consultation with a medical oncologist. you may need 2 opinions from medical oncologists and select one who has used chemo in old patient
would tropinin and bnp be elevated in patients with aortic insufficiency and/or severe stenosis?
troponin elevation is indicative of myocardial tissue injury (in absence of other noncardiac causes e. g. kidney disease) which may result from valvular disease through decreased blood supply to the heart. bnp elevation ususlly indicates increased cardiac stress such as in heart failure (that can be from valvular disease). significance of elevation of either should be correlated clinically.
what causes inflammation of the heart muscle? is it permanent or it can recur? how it can be treated? antibiotics? for how long?
inflammation of the heart muscle is most commonly caused by a viral infection and antibiotics are not effective for this. after the acute phase is over damage and weakness of the heart muscle may follow. recurrent myocarditis would be unusual except in autoimmune causes. rest is the main treatment unless congestive heart failure occurs. a cardiologist is best qualified to care for the patient
how could someone have dilated cardiomyopathy and die from it but doctors never found it? wouldn't that show on echo or exam?
excellent question. studies show people with cardiomyopathy may have no symptoms but according to the cdc still be at risk for sudden death. dilated cardiomyopathy can be idiopathic primary or acquired (cocaine alcohol diabetic ischemic) and is actually defined as enlarged volume in heart chambers <40% ejection fraction. who-collectively the most common etiology of clinical heart failure.
hi there mom has pacemaker for 6 days now her legs started swelling has developed a cough and last night battled to breathe also kept waking up in?
a person who has heart disease and then gets legs swelling shortness of breath and cough. . may have congestive heart failure. the usual care is to go see the doctor now at the doctor's office or at the er. the er can take care of such issues and consult a cardiologist as needed. if a person has a heart attack or kidney failure she can also have symptoms like these.
how can i safely use a fleet enema for constipation if i have chronically low potassium?
fleets enema: commonly used ~4 oz saline laxative; sodium phosphate-based; can cause adverse reactions in certain individuals (age >55) with certain pre-existing conditions (e. g. dehydration impaired kidney function congestive heart failure abnormal electrolytes) if used too often (>3 days or >1 dose/24 hrs). i recommend you ask your md about proper dosing and alternatives.
how long does it take ivabradine to work? is the effect immediate or does it still stabilize over several days?
corlanor® (ivabradine) is indicated to reduce the risk of hospitalization for worsening heart failure in patients with stable symptomatic chronic heart failure with left ventricular ejection fraction? 35% who are in sinus rhythm with resting heart rate? 70 beats per minute. read more at: <link>
how long does it take ivabradine tablet to work before achieving stable level?
but you are young for this beta blocker for blood pressure or heart failure i don't know why you are on this unless you had a heart attack or the above maybe heart racing? see a cardiologist to be sure you have the right medicine but it should be stable within 3 days or less.
just dx'd with svt. what are the main causes? what are long term effects on heart and body? currently seeing cardiologist for treatment.
usually it is caused by an electrical abnormality in the atria. it can be dangerous if it causes the heart to beat too long. but the. patient would definitely feel it and know something is wrong. when the heart beats in svt for a long time there is a risk of heart failure or even cardiac arrest.
keep waking up gasping for air. had a normal ecg two years ago my doc said heart/ lungs sound fine bp norm. not heart failure then? what could it be
one possibility is sleep apnea should continue to search for cause with your doc.
keep waking up gasping for air. had a normal ecg two years ago my doc said heart/ lungs sound fine bp norm. not heart failure then? what could it be
obstructive sleep apnea can be one of the reasons for pauses in breathing during sleep and gasping on waking up. obstructive sleep apnea is usually associated with obesity and history of loud snoring. consult a physician for a sleep study. it can be treated by using cpap machine or surgery.
keep waking up gasping for air. had a normal ecg two years ago my doc said heart/ lungs sound fine bp norm. not heart failure then? what could it be
you may want to have a sleep apnea test. . talk to your doctor asap.
leg swelling from knee down. recent chest pain/pressure/cough. ekg normal. xray inconclusive. ct in 5 days. hx of pericardial cyst-4x3cm. thoughts?
are you on birth control pills? are you over weight? do you have diabetes? how active are you ? do you smoke? these and other things need to be reviewed for the correct diagnosis to be made. a possibility of heart failure even though you're young unless you have a h/o heart disease considering your symptoms. of much concern would be blood clot in your legs. you need to be seen by a doctor
my husband's atrial fibrillation seems to have progressed. he's breathing very rapid and loud while sleeping has higher heart rates sick sinus syndr?
please review him with his cardiologist asap. his symptoms are suggesting worsening atrial fibrillation obstructive sleep apnoea and therefore a possibility of heart failure as well. he needs ti be reviewed by a doctor as soon as possible to avoid any complications developing.
n-terminal pro b-type natriuretic peptide test value of my mother is 3670. what does it mean? last year she had a heart attack and stenting.
again this peptide is elevated in patients with volume overload and suggests the possibility of decompensated congestive heart failure in the appropriate clinical setting. . this number is elevated. your mother should be seen by a cardiologist
on antibiotics for sinus infection. better but cardiac cough is back. i have dcm. no swell in feet but i have trouble with swelling in stomach. norm?
cardiac cough implies congestive heart failure -- you need medical attention now!
over the last six months i have been tachycardic at rest and now have bilateral pitting oedema in my lower legs - what does this mean?
the 2 signs - tachycardia & edema - point to heart failure but there are 3 causes of edema & low blood volume can lead to resting tachycardia independent of cause (so 2 signs unrelated). the 3 causes are (1) cardiac (2) liver cirrhosis & (3) nephropathy - kidney leaking protein / albumin. ask your primary doctor about your symptoms & history. or use healthtap prime to help get to a diagnosis.
physical examination findings say: cardiac murmur 1 location apex timing diastolic systolic ejection. what does it mean please help explain? thanks.
cardiac auscultation was born when a doctor realized he could hear the sounds the heart makes during filling diastole and systole when the heart beats. murmurs indicate abnormal heart sounds indicating valvular stenosis or regurgitation (rigid or leaky) extra heartbeats in heart failure etc. murmurs are graded 1-5 and described by anatomical location and radiation. google videos/ articles.
patient had sepsis. patient died. if multiple troponin levels say normal then death cannot be from acute hf and conjestve hf am i correct?
troponin is a marker of acute death of heart muscle cells. a person may be in heart failure due to prior damage to the heart and still have normal troponin levels.
recently my mom had lung cancer. today she was taken to the hospital after some chest pain and there seems to be some fluids in her lungs ( i think it?
hi it sounds like you may be asking where this fluid is coming from. pleural effusions can come from different sources. it is possible that cancer or recurrence and spread of cancer can cause a pleural effusion. however they can also come from infections heart failure and liver failure to name some other possibilities. a full eval is warranted and may require draining and testing the fluid.
suvival rate for 47 yr f with hx of stemi in lad 6 stents sss pacemaker (20% dependent) aortic valve replacement non-semi and occluded by pass?
much depends upon the status of her heart muscle health as determined by an echocardiogram or gated blood pool scan. . if her left ventricle has good strength (normal ejection fraction)and no evidence of past or present congestive heart failure i believe survival odds can be good barring any further heart attacks which will cause myocardial damage.
since i have dilated cardiomyopathy (age 19) does that necessarily mean i have chf? am i going to eventually develop chf? thanks in advance!
given your age you may not have the full-blown symptoms of chf yet but an underlying cardiomyopathy (assuming the diagnosis was made by echocardiogram or "usual means") is a serious diagnosis. your likelihood of developing chf is so high that you have to be followed yearly (if not more often) & start on meds at the 1st sign of heart failure. keep a diary talk to cardiologist. use healthtap prim
to control chf is it normal to prescribe hydralazine alone or with isosorbide dinitrate? she has no hypertension but af. headache+af worsens wt these
the combination of hydralazine and isosorbide reduce filling pressures in the heart reduce the amt of work the heart must do & reduce the changes in structure to the heart that heart failure brings. this is for heart failure where the ejection fraction is less than 40%.
victoza (liraglutide) and digoxin how do they effect one. another?
i treat nausea as "dig toxicity" in chf pt's until i can get further tests done. victoza (liraglutide) in new start ups is frequently nauseating. as a diabetic with heart failure you are a challenging pt. control of you blood sugar and fluid levels is critical. you need a close follow up with your doc.
ventricular tachycardia is what?
ventricular tachycardia (vt) is a fast heart rhythm that originates in the bottom two chambers of the heart. it can result in palpitations chest pain shortness of breath dizziness passing out and even death. it is rare unless you've had a heart attack or heart failure/cardiomyopathy. treaments can include icd's ablation procedures or medicine. discuss with a heart rhythm specialist.
visited er normal ekg and blood tests 99%bloodoxy doc says oh and you have a little fluid on lungs no big deal maybe up diuretic. need to worry?
a little fluid on the lungs is not benign especially since i see no mention of heart failure or of diuretic. seems as though you have had procedures to evaluate function of your heart. so. i am wondering on what evidence they deduced there was fluid in the lungs. sometimes this may be suggested by labs or x ray but neither of these is completely reliable. ask them directly.
what is the definition or description of: toprol (metoprolol) xl overdose?
toprol overdose sx's & signs may include nausea/vomiting slow or uneven heartbeat (bradycardia or atrioventricular block) shortness of breath (with hypoxia) dizziness weakness or fainting hypotension heart failure & coma.
what is prognosis if male has ipf and stage 3 heart failure?
heart/lung transplant poor! sorry but hope this helps! dr z
please help! what happens when your blood pressure is too high or too low?
for the most part high blood pressure for a short time days to months won't make too much of an effect which is why it's referred to as the silent killer. of course if it's too high for a longer period of time you can end up w/stroke heart failure kidney failure etc. blood pressure that's too low can make you feel weak woozy lightheaded dizzy & possibly even faint. think like goldilocks
what's a hypertensive crisis? if i notice a spike in my blood pressure what should i do?
extremely high blood pressure — a top number (systolic pressure) of 180 millimeters of mercury (mm hg) or higher or a bottom number (diastolic pressure) of 120 mm hg or higher — damages blood vessels. they become inflamed and may leak fluid or blood. as a result the heart may not be able to pump blood effectively. causes of a hypertensive emergency include: forgetting to take your blood pressure medication stroke heart attack heart failure kidney failure rupture of your body's main artery (aorta) interaction between medications convulsions during pregnancy (eclampsia). a hypertensive crisis is divided into two categories: urgent and emergency. in an urgent hypertensive crisis your blood pressure is extremely high but your doctor doesn't suspect you have any damage to your organs. in an emergency hypertensive crisis your blood pressure is extremely high and has caused damage to your organs. an emergency hypertensive crisis can be associated with life-threatening complications. signs and symptoms of a hypertensive crisis that may be life–threatening may include: severe chest pain severe headache accompanied by confusion and blurred vision nausea and vomiting severe anxiety shortness of breath seizures unresponsiveness. if you experience a severe increase in your blood pressure seek immediate medical attention. treatment for hypertensive crisis may include hospitalization for treatment with oral or intravenous medications.
are beta blockers used to treat both stable and unstable angina?
beta blockers are commonly used to treat coronary disease and the weight of the evidence actually is for those patients who have already suffered a heart attack or have congestive heart failure. however by corollary and by some evidence actively ischemic heart disease patients (stable and unstable angina) do better with lower heart rates which result from beta blockers.
am i at an increased risk of stroke? with atrial fibrillation am i at increased risk of having a stroke?
yes atrial fibrillation increases the chances of having a stroke because there is an increased risk of blood clots forming in the heart which can then travel to the brain. the risk is proportional to the amount of other stroke risk factors. in other words the increased risk is small in people without other health conditions but risk increases with additional risk factors such as advancing age hypertension diabetes heart failure and if there has been a prior stroke. you should talk to your doctor about your stroke risk if you have atrial fibrillation. if the risk is moderate or high this would warrant taking the blood thinner warfarin. if the stroke risk is small you should at least take an aspirin.
shortness of breath on mild activity and sleeping on chest side cxr echo pft normal thyroid cbp normal my weight is ideal wt to do now?
shortness of breath on mild exertion & sleeping on left side of chest may be caused by congestive heart failure copd cad cardiomyopathy hypertension thyroid disorder anxiety neurosis pleuritis pe anemia sleep apnea. diagnosed by physical exam x-ray chest echo pft stress echo ct of chest with pe protocol cvc sma24 tshtreat the cause.
please tell me could a heart valve heal itself?
your question is not clear. if you have valve stenosis it doesn't resolve by itself. if it is regurgitation secondary to heart failure and or hypertension or from nay other treatable cause it could improve after treating underlying cause.
what should my oxygen rate be with chf and how low can it get before it causes problems?
when someone with heart failure is stable their oxygen saturation as measured on a pulse oximetry (usually on their fingertip) should be greater than 90%. lower than that may indicate retention of fluid in the lungs and necessitate a visit to the er or the cardiologist to adjust medications and re-assess.
sle pt on prednisone. gained 20 lbs. but skin on legs doesn't feel like just fat. it is tight/swollen. gfr low 40s cr 1. 4. can i safely take diuretic?
possibly but this may be a steroid side effect or even heart failure. steroid-sparing medications need be explored.
pulmonary edema happens as a result of what?
pulmonary edema is a result of heart failure. when the heart doesn't squeeze ir doesn't relax properly pressures in the heart can rise and cause 'water in the lungs' - pulmonary edema.
can a biventricular icd reading show if heart failure is worse in someone with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy? what would it show?
a biv icd is therapy for heart failure and poor left ventricular function. one of the types on the market has an impedance device in it which can predict changes in fluid status. all biv icds do not have this particular technology. changes in chest impedance can indicate changes in fluid volumes in the chest and heart failure status.
can a biventricular icd reading show if heart failure is worse in someone with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy? what would it show?
the best option is to track the progression using multifunction cardiogram! <link> m. wikipedia. org/wiki/multifunction_cardiogram.
what does it mean if someone has stage 2 heart failure?
according to the new york heart association system class ii heart failure means there is slight limitation of physical activity. the patients are comfortable when resting but normal physical activity causes some symptoms.
sir i am suffering from diabities-2 and high bp taking medicine for both. i am suffocating particularly in aircraft. what could be the reason? please
must see cardiologist for? coronary artery disease congestive heart failure sleep apnea. . etc.
will hawthorn lower my blood pressure?
it has some indications for heart failure but that's not what you're asking. if you're worried about it i would stay away from it altogether.
swollen hands and feet within a two days time should i be concerned about heart failure?
no you do not have to worry about heart failure. there are many causes of swelling of hands and feet. so consult your doctor asap.
what are the risks of general anesthetic? ie: why do they often avoid? is there a risk of heart failure? my heart tests are all good and strong.
for general anesthesia are minimal sometimes general anesthesia is avoided because not necessary and also does not provide pain relief afterwards
swollen feet & ankles whay dors it cm from?
swelling of your feet and ankles are likely due to excess fluid trapped in your tissues called edema. it has many potential causes including medications (calcium channel blockers etc) venous insufficiency arthritis heart failure liver disease or kidney disease. it would be a good idea to see a doctor for evaluation.
what can cause extreme difficulty breathing?
heart (congestive heart failure blockage of arteries) kidneys (fluid overload) lungs (copd/ emphysema bronchitis) hypertension anemia anxiety and panic attacks alcohol to excess and drugs of any kind. smoking! and also complete lack of physical fitness (being out of shape) and several more!
what is triazide and enalapril used for?
thiazide is a mild diuretics and a better hypertension medication enalapril is in the class of ace inhibitor good for hypertension to protect kidneys from diabetes and as part of the treatment of congestive heart failure (chf)
what causes right-sided heart failure?
the commonest cause of right heart failure is left heart failure. after left heart failure causes include pulmonary vascular disease pulmonary parenchymal disease congenital heart disease myocardial disease and valvular heart disease and others
what is the diagnostic test for cardiac asthma?
this is not asthma. it's similar symptoms due to heart failure. your doctor can test your heart (ekg echocardiogram) about heart failure and examine you. treating cardiac asthma involves addressing the heart component.
what does "ventricular hypertrophy with mitral valve endocardiosis" mean in simple terms?
we human cardiologists don't use the term endocardiosis. i found it in a veterinary ref. endocardiosis common cause of cardiac disease in the dog. characterized by chronic fibrosis and nodular thickening of the free edges of the atrioventicular valves. in the worst cases the valve cusps are distorted converting a minor leak into a massive incompetence. leads to congestive heart failure. there is no specific cause.
what are the treatments for congestive heart failure?
chf treatment depends on the cause of the chf. if its severe valve disease valve surgery may be indicated. if its muscle disease then a bunch of medications are used if its too much heart muscle and abnormal relaxation rather than contraction then other steps are used you have to have a cause to treat and then use what works with that kind of chf
what are examples of terminal heart diseases?
any heart disease if its caused enough damage to seriously impair the supply of blood at adequate pressure to the body can be 'terminal'. extensive myocardial infarction with resultant refractory congestive heart failure can be terminal likewise dilated cardiomyopathy causing similar refractory congestive failure and multiorgan failure. the answer is more complicated than the above tho'
what to do if my family friends son who had leukemia is starting to have heart failure. what happens with heart failure?
your friend's son needs to be seeing and following his docs program. nothing you can do but be supportive. look up heart failure on google if you want general info on it.
which disease is more manageable coronary heart disease or congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure is often one of the compications of cad. both are serious conditions that can be managed with proper medications diet exercise and always addressing the root cause of the problem.
which disease is more manageable coronary heart disease or congestive heart failure?
if both are present then both must be treated. coronary heart disease will lead to heart attacks which cause or worsen chf. chf if untreated will lead to worsening of symptoms more stress on the heart and may well lead to heart attacks itself.
what to do if i am young and i have a high blood pressure?
we worry about high blood pressure in all our patients but in young people we worry about treatable causes such as renal artery stenosis. best to keep track of your blood pressure and bring in your cuff for calibration. your doc may want to discuss further testing & evaluation. don't ignore high blood pressure as it increases risk for stroke heart failure & chronic kidney disease.
what do you suggest if my mom is 65 and has high blood pressure her blood pressure is 190/85 after her medication?
hi. your mom's bp on therapy is still unacceptably high and she needs additional medications to get it lower. high blood pressure like that increases risk of stroke and heart failure (not pumping well) among other things. make sure she follows up with her doctor and gets it under control! good luck!
what is happening in the respiratory system when it becomes hard to breathe?
whole books are written about this. it can be mechanical like a collapsed lung bronchospastic like asthma air-space replacement like heart failure anemia poison (like cyanide) infectious like pneumonia blood clot and many many more causes.
what are the signs of aortic regurgitation/leakage?
do you mean symptoms? (signs are physical findings your doctor detects during an examination). ar causes no symptoms for many decades but when it finally does start to cause symptoms it's congestive heart failure - shortness of breath with minimal exertion or at rest. less common symptoms are: angina (chest pain) and syncope (passing out).
what to do if i have breathing problems when i drink alcohol?
usually alcohol intake in moderation (2 drinks a day but not 14 on saturday night! ) do not cause any cardiac problems. however: drinking large amounts of alcohol may acutely affect cardiac function and make the heart acutely weak. long term alcohol may deteriorate the heart to the point of dilated cardiomyopathy with subsequent heart failure. other explanation could be aspiration into lungs.
what is the effect of percutaneous mitral vavuloplasty on pregnant mother and foetus - a tertiary care hospital experience?
goal of perc mitral valvuloplasty is to relieve the degree of mitral stenosis which can cause right heart failure symptoms atrial fibrillation pulmonary hypertension in the mother often not well tolerated in pregnancy. the procedure is done with fluoroscopy (xray) and thus there is exposure to the mother and baby which should be minimal with judicious use of fluoro and shielding.
what do you suggest if i had a heart problem that named aartic sinosis?
as is a narrowing of the outflow tract of the heart's main pump. such can cause the heart muscle to enlarge (groq ticker) since there is a limited size of the arteries feeding the heart a problem develops; heart failure. if the problem is sever an aortic valve replacement is considered. you should ask your doctor to make an assessment.
what does it mean if a patient with congestive heart failure has cyanosis coupled with liver and kidney failure?
this organs all are affecting each other. congestive heart failure affects liver and both cause kidney problem. it's possible to control heart liver and kidney failure by specific measures and medications in most of the cases.
what does it means when ur liver is attached to ur heart? my cuz age 39 visited to dr and that's what he was told. it is pasted to his heart.
all livers are "attached to the heart" via the inferior vena cava (venous return to the right atrium) and by the hepatic artery (a branch off the aorta). ask her doctor for clarification. (may he said she has hepatic congestion from heart failure? ).
will the clearing of an 80% blockage of the lad help a a 20% efficient heart?
heart function sometimes improves after opening a blocked artery but not always especially if you have had a heart attack in the past. symptoms of heart failure or angina such as shortness of breath and chest pain are more important than the number attached to your heart function. best wishes.
was in a car accident 3yr ago seen 30 plus dr. s but no one can explain why does my body still hve water retention (edema) that happens after movement?
where is the edema? is it dependent (gravity related? ). is it unilateral (just affecting one side? ) does it improve during the night? what is your serum albumen? do you have kidney or liver dysfunction? history of congestive heart failure? did your accident involve your chest? (constrictive pericarditis) what medicines are you taking? is it lymphedema? (how extensive were your injuries? ).
was in a car accident 3yr ago seen 30 plus dr. s but no one can explain why does my body still hve water retention (edema) that happens after movement?
edema/water retention could happen either in heart failure or renal failure or hypoalbuminemia or liver failure. you need to undergo systematic work-up to exclude these conditions. you primary care physician has to do diagnostic work-up. don't switch the doctors. stay with a single one until completion of work-up. it could take time to establish diagnosis.
what would be the forward and backward effects of aortic stenosis?
the heart must push harder which is a strain and causes "muscle bound" left ventricular hypertrophy and later heart failure. the muscle needs more oxygen to pump and coronary flow is interfered with causing angina or heart attack in some. low forward flow can lead to fainting syncope. it is related to degree if stenosis- narrowing of this door! think of it as a door which does not open fully.
why does congestive heart failure cause diuretics to be mal-absorbed?
swelling in the intestinal wall. some diuretics are better absorbed in this setting by mouth. if this fails then iv diuretics. hope this helps.
why does congestive heart failure cause diuretics to be mal-absorbed?
congestive heart failure can cause decreased efficacy from oral medicines in a couple of ways. 1) if the right atrial pressure is high then that pressure will be transmitted back into the systemic venous circulation and there will be increased water in the tissues of the body including the walls of the small intestine creating an absorption block. 2) also there can be relative gut ischemia.
what are the physcial symptoms of an enlarged heart please?
the cause of the enlarged heart and pleural effusion is what dictates the outcome from such a situation. if you have a very weak heart with congestive heart failure and both sides of the heart malfunctioning to cause this that is very serious. if you have some more benign situation which is also possible could be less serious. you need to discuss with your doctor.
what occurs when someone is diagnosed with congestive heart failure?
many variables. it depends on the type of chf cause degree of heart failure overall function of the heart etc. chf should be evaluated by cardiologist.
what to do if i was pregnant with a baby who had this disease and it led to heart failure before he was born. anybody know anything about it?
it sounds like you are describing a condition called hydrous fetalis which is "heart failure" in a baby before it is born. there are many potential causes including congenital infections severe fetal anemia due to either infection or maternal fetal blood type incompatibility low heart rate or very fast heart rate or other causes. these problems may or may not recur in future pregnancies.
what to do if i was pregnant with a baby who had this disease and it led to heart failure before he was born. anybody know anything about it?
it is called pregnancy induced cardiomyopathy. if somebody has it you don't need worry unless until you get it. there is no way to prevent it. if it happens we can treat it.
which is the best drugs used in the treatment of systolic hypertension?
acei = angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors were first ; continue best track record to reduce mortality rates for congestive heart failure (1 result of htn ) but commonly do not improve heart function just slow decline. fat soluble ones e. g. perindopril best. adding on carvedilol with care (along with aggressively txing drivers of arterial disease) usually improves heart function over time.
wake up gasping for air & shortness of breath sometimes during the day. recently feels alone and nothing is right. heart failure or anxiety?
first rule out sleep apnea as this is very common and could be causing your symptoms. it could very easily be anxiety as well. you should start by seeing your primary care doctor.
wake up gasping for air & shortness of breath sometimes during the day. recently feels alone and nothing is right. heart failure or anxiety?
can't tell without examination so see a doctor. non-specific symptoms can be only sign of congestive heart failure and hypoxemia.
which is easier to treat and has a better prognosis diastolic or systolic heart failure?
systolic failure is when the heart squeeze is too weak. diastolic failure is when the heart is thickened and stiff. another way to look at it is systolic failure is a problem of the heart emptying out and diastolic failure is a filling problem. treatment for both is blood pressure and heart rate control. also controlling fluid intake. prognosis for both is dependent on the severity.
what is hypertension urgency?
it's more accurately: severe htn with mild symptoms. mostly bp doesn't cause symptoms but when it's very high (we're talking >200/>110 - sometimes much higher) there may be angina heart failure or encephalopathy. if severe it's a hypertensive emergency. "urgency" is a term used for a borderline situation.
what are some food choices for a 60yr old congestive heart failure and diabetic person?
high potassium low saturated fat with 0. 8 gr/kg of protein will be good. calorie count with good complex carbs including vegetables and fresh fruits. i will advised you to consult a dietitian. exercise according to the cardiac rehabilitation program by your cardiology very important.
what are some food choices for a 60yr old congestive heart failure and diabetic person?
-- low salt low saturated fat modest lean meat portions (4 oz) only complex veggies only complex fruits whole grain foods -- eat minimal bread minimal pasta. complex fruit is fruit with low juice and high pulp (apple pear nectarine banana). complex veggie - are most. nuts are excellent.
what is chf and is it treatable?
chf=congestive heart failure. it usually means that a person has had injury to their heart muscle and the heart can no longer pump out blood in an efficient manner. blood pools in the heart and often backs up into the lungs. because less blood is pumped out kidneys see less blood and think the body needs more volume so it holds on to more fluid. symptoms are treatable stem cells may prove to be cure.
what is the first choice in managing congestive heart failure (chf): a venodilator an arteriolar dilator or a balanced vasodilator?
best data on acei as first line therapy which is a predominant arteriolar vasodilator though has some venous effects as well. second line agents such as isordil (isosorbide dinitrate) added to hydral also of proven benefit in aa population with balanced vasodilator effect.
will excercising and cardio help congestive heart failure?
we recommend cardio exercise for chf patients in moderation.
what can cause dysphagia (difficulty in swallowing) in patients who have congestive heart failure?
if the left atrium is enlarged this may cause dysphagia but this is not a common cause.
what can cause dysphagia (difficulty in swallowing) in patients who have congestive heart failure?
dysphagia is usually an esophageal problem but can be caused by external pressure on the esophagus. when the left atrium is enlarged and under increased pressure the esophagus may be compressed causing dysphagia. this can happen during chf.
what can i do to treat water retention?
the best way to get rid of water retention is to find out what is causing it. there are several reasons to retain water kidney failure heart failure and varicose veins among others. the treatment of water retention due to heart failure is different from that due to varicose veins. see a physician and be evaluated properly so you can follow a sure road leading to the elimination of your problem.
what are all the possible symptoms of a silent heart attack? if i had one in the past would it show now in my ecocardiogram? i have it on my profile
a silent heart attack is by definition one without symptoms so the question is unanswerable. the end result of multiple heart attacks is heart failure which would show on the echo as worse pumping function. it is uncommon for someone of your age and listed history to have had a heart attack but you could have a conduction system alteration from lyrica (pregabalin) - or other drug? - that can look like an mi.
what to do if i have high blood pressure its been 20 years im on medication does it damage my heart?
if your medications keep your blood pressure in normal range you will be protected from the complications of high blood pressure on your heart: hypertrophy (thickening of the muscle) or heart failure (enlargement and weakening). if your already had thickening of your heart muscle this is potentially reversible with excellent blood pressure control.
what is the probability of stroke with both mitral valve regurgitation and stenosis of carotid artery?
the carotid disease if stenosed (>80%) warrants surgical consideration as risk of stroke is increased. the mr if miderate to severe poses a risk for congestive heart failure not stroke. if not allergic or have issues with platelet function daily aspirin 81mg is recommended for atherosclerosis.
when do you require a crtd for a congestive heart failure patient? what is differences between crtd crtp crt icd?
cardiac re synchronization therapy is a pacemaker that corrects the loss of synchronization of both ventricles in chf patients with marked intraventricular conduction delay. because it is used in patients with low ef we often use it with defibrillator capability. icd is a defibrillator device generally single chamber for patients who just need that function.
when a person has significant blockage of the heart arteries it will result in reduced body energy. will the blockage also affect memory and eyesight?
significant blockage will result in an inability to be active due to reduce performance of your heart pumping o2 blood to all your body. may be even causing heart failure. if that happen in theory your memory could suffer. not sure about your sight. i will advice to get a good eye specialist to check your eyes. also check with your primary care doctor to r/o other causes of memory loss.
what could cause waking up in the morning short of breath?
evaluated for a heart or lung condition -? asthma clot in lung blockage in coronary arteries heart failure etc( the latter three less likely cuz of your young age) nevertheless you need to be examined. bless u!
what is the standard treatment for someone with pfo tricuspid valve leaking severely congestive heart failure with high blood pressure & is nursing?
patients with severe tricuspid regurgitation may develop cyanosis and dyspnea because of the direction of tricuspid regurgitation across the pfo. device closure may be clinically beneficial.
what is the standard treatment for someone with pfo tricuspid valve leaking severely congestive heart failure with high blood pressure & is nursing?
looks like you are on a decent combination. diuretics generally do not get into breast milk. you do need to address a some point why you have tr and what needs to be done (probably surgically).
why is maternal cardiomyopathy dangerous during pregnancy?
because it can lead to heart failure and death.
why is maternal cardiomyopathy dangerous during pregnancy?
it can lead to heart failure and death. the condition is very dangerous and needs to be managed by doctors who are trained in high risk pregnancy.
what to do if i start wheezing and chest gets congested could it be asthma or my heart?
if there is no risk factors for coronary artery disease possibly asthma. test like spirometry and peak flow metacholine challenge test chest ray used to diagnosed asthma. heart conditions can mimic an asthma specially heart failure and acute coronary syndrome. consult a physician.
which sort of condition that could induced hypertension causes?
consistent elevated blood pressures above 140 or 90 mmhg can lead to blood vessel damage atherosclerosis and blockages. over time high blood pressure can cause heart attacks angina strokes heart failure (chf) and kidney failure. diet (weight loss and low salt) less alcohol and more exercise can reduce bp. drug treatment is safe and effective though some people need more than one drug.
what can i do to prevent me from passing away from heart failure like the rest of my family has?
control bp cholesterol and your weight. do not be afraid of using meds especially statins to achieve this goal. do not smoke. exercise regularly. consider taking asa 81 mg daily every day.
what causes congestive heart failure to produce heavy breathing?
heart failure causes elevated filling pressures in the heart which then reflect back in the lungs. the elevated pressures in thelungs causes fluid to extravasate into the parenchyma which causes shortness of breath and dyspnea.
what cardiac conditions will look similar to bronchitis on a chest xray? had cp but no cough or known illness. is it heart related problem?
a chest xray that is similar to bronchitis maybe congestive heart failure. hard to tell without more information if this is a cardiac condition. seems like you will need a complete work up including ekg echo and maybe stress test to iidentify heart disease.
what are the ways that people go from leaukemia to heart failure?
there are some chemotherapy drugs that have cardiotoxic potential such as adriamycin (doxorubicin) and anthracycline derivatives which may cause cardiomyopathy to occur and heart failure.
what exactly does hypertension and congestive heart failure have to do with each other?
depending on the cause it can be low or high. weak heart chf usually has low blood pressure. strong heart chf or hefpef can have high blood pressure. the abbreviation stands for heart failure preserved ejection fraction. about half of chf is each type.
why would i have. low blood pressure?
if you have low blood pressures especially with systolics in the 80s or below and this isn't your baseline blood pressure you need to get evaluated by a doctor immediately. low blood pressure is an ominous sign of things such as volume depletion infection or heart failure and cannot be properly diagnosed without an exam.
what work best to treat pulmonary edema if the person has renal failure?
get the water out of the lungs either using diuretics if there is enough renal function left to allow this to happen or remove the water acutely using hemofiltration. if this is due to renal and heart failure the heart failure also has to be managed aggressively.
what symptoms are common in heart failure in women?
shortness of breath decreased exercise tolerance swelling of feet and ankles cough wheezing.
what is the very first signs of congestive heart failure. should i be taking imetoprolol tartrate & isosorbide monomitratate? if i have chf?
shortness of breath leg swelling fatigue are common. both meds are good. you may want to talk with your doctor regards to "ace inhibitors and water pills. depending on how bad your chf is these will add bebefit to meds you are already taking. if your ef is less than 35% you may need a defibrillator.
what is the very first signs of congestive heart failure. should i be taking imetoprolol tartrate & isosorbide monomitratate? if i have chf?
furst symptoms of heart failure include shortness of breath with activity and later shortness of breath while laying down or fluid retention. arrhythmias and chest pain might develop. meds like beta blockers (carvedilol in particular) and acei are important parts of treatment. if unable to tolerate acei/arb drugs isosorbide along with hydralazine might work.
what short and long term affects are associated with cardiovascular disease?
heart: angina heart attack congestive heart failure arrythmias carotid: tia stroke dementia legs: limited walking=claudication rest pain gangrene amputations veins: clots and pulmonary embolism and varicose veins disability and death prevention is worthwhile for dollars and life style .
what does "mild concentric left ventricular hypertrophy septum is akinetic & left ventricle is severely hypokinetic. " mean?
this is typically seen on echocardiogram in patients who have or will develop heart failure most often as result of coronary artery disease. you need to see a cardiologist for further testing asap!
what is the racing feeling in my heart and in my chest and my stomach it's like a fluttering panicky feeling?
need to seek urgent care atrial fibrillation suspect. short circuit conduction system of heart over drives lower portion of heart. carries risk for stroke and heart failure has many causes.
what is the definition or description of: ventricular assist device?
some patients with heart failure are unable to be treated with the normal medications and require mechanical assistance. these mechanical devices take over part of the work of the left ventricle thus venticular assist device. they range anywhere from a small device placed through an artery in the groin (less assist) to one that is placed via open chest technique like open heart surgery .
what are the effects of chf on the cardiovascular system?
the answer is far more complex than 400 characters allow. heart failure causes an overload of adrenaline-like compounds that make the heart change shape and composition and deposit scar tissue. meanwhile the kidneys and the heart get their ongoing tango out of step and start miscommunicating with each other resulting in blood pressure abnormalities and other further problems.
what are the risks associated with having a pfo while i am pregnant?
are you asking if the pregnant mother has a patent foramen ovale or an atrial septal defect? most women with asd in pregnancy do fine and the management is not really different from normal pregnancy other than a possible baseline echocardiogram. risks especially in those over the age of 40 include arrhythmias heart failure thromboembolism and severe bleeding at the time of delivery.
why might i have the combined symptoms of congestive heart failure and ankle swelling?
lower extremity swelling and breathlessness are hallmark symptoms of congestive heart failure.
why might i have the combined symptoms of congestive heart failure and ankle swelling?
might be too weak. do you have a cardiologist?
what is congestive heart failure? symptoms.
with increased stiffness &/or weakness of heart pumping (muscle &/or valve problems) brain reflexes? thirst/water intake &? water output from kidneys; thus body water increases driving congestion (edema). if heart function not too sick the? water/blood volume improves pump function; but no limit to the reflex & the increased water (edema) can fill the lungs (can't breath) & legs/body swells.
what is congestive heart failure? symptoms.
failure of heart to pump blood forward to meet metabolic demands of the body hence the lungs and other organs get congested. symptoms: dyspnea fatigue bipedal edema etc!
what is the treatment for coarctation of the aorta?
if aortic coarctation is severe enough to cause hypertension and/or heart failure then treatments may include surgery or balloon angioplasty with or without aortic stenting. the choice of procedure depends on patient age aortic arch anatomy and co-existing cardiac and non-cardiac conditions.
what is the average life-expectancy for aortic stenosis as?
on severity and specific symptoms. prognosis is poor once heart failure angina or syncope is present.
wheezing when i cough and chest pain. what could this be?
wheezing cough and chest pain may suggest bronchial asthma chronic or acute bronchitis etc. need to see doc for office spirometry and chest radiograph or see a lung specialist to make sure that you do not have bronchial asthma. angina is less likely with cough and wheezing unless associated with congestive heart failure.
what are signs of congestive heart failure and is this always fatal?
shortness of breath initially with exercise and in more severe cases even at rest. this may be worse when lying flat and may cause awakening with shortness of breath. frequent nighttime awakening to pass urine may occur. swelling of the ankles may develop engorgement of veins in the neck may be seen. while life expectancy is shortened with treatment there can be a number of good years.
what are symptoms of an enlarged heart or can you tell?
enlarged heart can mean many different thinks: uncontrolled hypertension prio heart attack alcohol toxicity heart failure certain viral infections. so symptoms or lock of symptoms depend on etiology and severety of the "enlarged heart". medically called: cardiomegaly lvh cardiomyopathy.
what is left-sided heart failure from?
the left ventricle is dysfunctional either during systole (squeezing). or diastole (relaxing) or both. in either case forward flow of blood through the heart to the body is impaired. this leads to blood backing up into the lungs causing shortness of breath.
what is left-sided heart failure from?
can be caused by many things but most common cause is cad. lv function is usually assessed by an echocardiogram.
what are some common signs of heart cancer?
most of the cancers in heart are metastatic cancers. primary cancers of the heart are very rare. such a tumor may produce signs and symptoms of heart failure. please see this site for more info. <link>
what are symptoms of paroxymal nocturnal dyspnea and can you die from it?
is the need to suddenly sit up due to shortness of breath after being asleep or lying down for a while. it can be a symptom of decompensated heart failure. if pnd is truly happening you should get your physician involved or go to an emergency room.
what is stage 4 heart furlie mean?
class 4 or stage 4 heart failure means very severe and a person has symptoms such as shortness of breath even at rest. the person always has symptoms and is physically limitted and virtually dependent on someone else for activities of daily living. he/she has high risk of death and really needs a heart transplant. please consult doc if u/or someone u know have concern. good luck.
what is the cure for heart enlargement with pain?
the only cure for endstage heart failure is a cardiac transplant. any other therapy only provides temporary measures. if you have stage 4 failure i hope the current treatments are providing relief and that you are on a transplant list. consult doc regularly. i wish you the best of luck.
what's the treatment for right side heart failure?
really depends on the cause. in general diuretics are critical to treat the volume overload and edema.
what is the relationship between mosaic perfusion and ascites?
is a direct relationship. mosaic perfusion is a pattern of vessels in the lung associated with pulmonary hypertension and other pulmonary vascular disease. pulmonary hypertension could lead to right heart failure and then ascites. i really am unable to find a direct connection between this finding on high resolution ct and ascites. perhaps a radiologist might have a different idea.
would drinking too much water affect pulmonary edema?
yes in person with kidney disease or a heart failure. you do have to follow you weight daily which reflect your fluid balance.
would drinking too much water affect pulmonary edema?
as heart failure is the main cause of pulmonary edema one possible manner for an increase in the intravascular filling pressure (from drinking more than the heart can handle) is back pressure and flooding of the pulmonary system. however for normal people it would take drinking gallons a day to do this to yourself.
what are the chances of heart failure in teens?
studies have shown an association between cholesterol disorders and the onset of atherosclerosis in children adolescents and young adults. and just like adults eating foods high in saturated fat not getting enough exercise and having a family history of heart disease can all lead to high cholesterol levels in children. an increase in childhood obesity is also leading to high cholesterol.
what are the chances of heart failure in teens?
very rare but this needs further evaluation with an echocardiogram and possible consultation with a cardiologist.
what other than asthma can cause trouble breathing?
including: pneumonia chronic lung disease bronchitis copd bronchiolitis cheat trauma epiglottis lung cancer pulmonary edema pleurisy pulmonary embolism throat trauma heart attack neuromuscular disorders anaphylaxis high altitude obesity organ failure sepsis shock severe ascites cardiac arrthymias pericarditis cardiomyopathy congestive heart failure etc.
what is cardiac insufficiency?
this is a vague term which is not typical nomenclature. i assume its referring to a pt with a weak heart called a cardiomyopathy. the pumping function is impaired and thus " insufficient " to meet the bodies needs. pts like this are prone to episode of cogestive heart failure.
what is cardiac insufficiency?
cardiac insufficiency is a very old term that is roughly synonomous with congestive heart failure. it hasn't been used for many years and so its use today is archaic.
what're the reasons contributing to my increasing heart failure?
heart failure can get worse with inappropriate salt intake poor blood pressure and heart rate control and any new stress on the heart which could be a heart attack pain infections. worsening kidney function can contribute. if you are experiencing worsening heart failure you should see your cardiologist asap.
what are the risks of becoming? pregnant with moderate congestive heart failure?
your heart condition could worsen particularly if you gain a lot of weight and your blood pressure becomes elevated. you therefore require more than the usual care and your obstetrician may require close consultation with your cardiologist.
what is peripheral edema?
edema is the greek word for swelling; peripheral is the greek word for circumferential. together these two words connote the swelling typically seen in right heart failure when the venous return to the heart cannot be pumped forward adequately thus dilating the veins and spilling over into the soft tissues.
what is the relation of hypertension and? decreased cardiac output?
hypertension if not treated leads to myocardial hypertrophy accelerated atherosclerosis resulting in inadequate blood supply to heart muscle that leads to impaired heart function and decreased cardiac output/heart failure.
what are some? things people can do at home to help with? congestive heart failure?
regular exercise low sodium diet and medication compliance are the best things you can do at home for your chf.
what is the cure for heart enlargement chest pain?
chest pain and heart enlargement is not a good combination. if your heart is enlarged you may have congestive heart failure already. but start hurting in the chest you need to be checked for any coronary artery disease.
what are the odds of surviving a second quadruple bypass surgery?
mortality for redo sternotomy redo coronary bypass is multifactorial. ejection fraction quality of the target vessels comorbidities like age obesity diabetes recent myocardial infarction degree of emphysema if former smoker glomerularfiltration rate stroke valve stenosis/insufficiency heart failure organ failure to incle some.
with right sided heart failure would the pcwp increase?
pulmonary wedge pressure estimates left atrial pressure. classically isolated right heart failure implies that the left heart is normal. however even in isolated right heart failure the rv can dilate to the point were lv filling is impacted and therefore the pulmonary wedge pressure can increase. lv-rv interactions can be complex. also left heart disease can cause rv failure.
with right sided heart failure would the pcwp increase?
the most common cause of right sided heart failure is left heart failure so it would increase. isolated r. heart failure would not lead to an increase in the wedge pressure.
what are the risks of congestive heart failure in pregnancy?
congestive heart failure is dangerous for anyone but particularly for pregnant women. it can lead to maternal death pregnancy complications (preterm labor cesarean section fetal distress) and need for intensive care. management with maternal-fetal medicine and cardiology specialists is warranted.
what is nipride (nitroprusside) used for?
in the us nipride (nitroprusside) is indicated for lowering blood pressure in cases of hypertensive crisis for acute congestive heart failure & for lowering blood pressure to decrease bleeding. in other countries it has additional indications for use.
what is sinus tachyarrhythmia what's its treatment?
sinus tachyarrhymia is a faster than normal rate with normal rhythm through the normal conduction pathways meaning that there is no abnormal electrical conduction abnormality. the treatment is to treat the underlying cause. frequent causes include fever sepsis respiratory difficulties from copd or pulmonary embolism sepsis pain psychological stress acute heart failure or myocardial ischemia.
what are the common symptoms of truncus arteriosus?
the more common symptoms associated with truncus are heart failure related. basically since the pulmonary arteries are coming off directly from the aorta the lungs are receiving more blood than they should. this causes the left side of the heart to have to work more to pump the extra blood and at the same time the lungs to be more fluid filled and more stiff. breathing becomes more labored.
what are the tests for left-sided heart failure?
physical examination chest x-ray bnp (brain natruretic peptide) are the tools used most of the time. in some cases echocardiography and cardiac catheterization are required.
what are the tests for left-sided heart failure?
the usual test for left sided failure includes pro bnp and if elevated suggest l. v failure. next test is chest x-ray and if it shows cardiomegaly with evidence of chf. next test is echocardiography and finally left ventriculography.
what is the treatment for left-sided heart failure?
left sided or systolic heart failure is treated with several meds including ace inhibitors beta blockers and diuretics. other meds such as spironolactone and arb or angiotensin receptor blockers can be added as allowed by blood pressure tolerates.
what are the signs and symptoms of left sided heart failure associated with pulmonary congestion?
fatlgue shortness of breath on lying down or nocturnal shortness of breath in severe cases coughing up pink frothy mucous restlessness cold sweats etc.
what are the first clinical symptoms of heart failure?
it could be related to fluid overload like short of breath fulness in neck vessels or swelling feet or signs of reduced cardias output like fatigue or later orthopnea paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.
what is called dropsy and what is it caused by?
dropsy is a term for generalized edema. it may be due to heart failure liver and kidney disease malnutrition etc. other symptoms depend on the underlying pathology and may included respiratory trouble jaundice uremia etc.
what are the presenting symptoms of an infection of heart valves?
an infection of the heart valves known as endocarditis is a very serious disorder. symptoms usually stem from infection in the blood stream and include fever chills possible low blood pressure or even shock heart failure shortness of breath and may include severe damage to the infected valve causing severe leakage of the valve requiring emergency valve replacement surgery.
what are the symptoms of coronary artery disease in women?
often women have the same symptoms as men however women can more frequently than men have atypical symptoms such as nausea shortness of breath or heart failure. this is because women develop heart disease at an older age and with other illnesses such as diabetes hypertension and kidney disease.
what are symptoms of endocarditis?
fever skin hemorrhages especially under the nails blood in urine heart failure weakness and pain in locations affected by thrombo-emboli from the cardiac vegetations.
what are the signs and symptoms of left sided heart failure due associated with pulmonary congestion?
breathlessness especially with exertion. easy fatigability. impaired exercise capacity. these are early signs. without treatment one becomes short of breath resting especially when lying down (orthopnea) and at night (paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea). eventually the right heart also fails leading to swelling (edema) abdominal fluid (ascites and effusions) and cachexia (wasting).
what is the worst cause of pulmonary edema?
think of any good ones: they include heart failure altitude sickness and exposure to airborne toxins.
what is the significance of congestive heart failure in the medical history?
congestive heart failure suggests either prior infection/inflammation valvular dysfunction or coronary artery disease (most common). regardless chf is associated with increase mortality compared to similar person w/o condition. it also has a profoundly negative impact on quality of life. check out <link>
what does having shortness of breath actually mean?
we increase our rate and depth of breathing when our body needs more oxygen to be delivered to the tissues. this happens with rest or when anemia or heart failure or low oxygen environment produces a supply deficit. shortness of breath is the sensation of working to breath in enough air to satisfy the body's demand for oxygen.
what does trace mitral regurgitation mean?
trace means 'very mild' and mitral valve regurgitation means 'leak'. it happens when your mitral valve doesn't close tightly which allows blood to flow backward in your heart. when the 'leak' is moderate-severe you may develop symptoms of tiredness & fatigue. the worst thing: 'heart failure' requiring heart surgery and valve replacement (but you are no where near that stage) so no worries here.
what are the symptoms of cabg failure?
these are unusual by failure you mean failure of the grafts so signs of graft failure would be an inability to come off bypass pump heart failure myocardial infarction or arrhythmia. any of these are serious and can be fatal. if the failure occurs early after surgery then the patient could be brought back to the or if it occurs later then the patient may be brought to the cath lab.
why am i experiencing shortness of breath just walking around the block today when i don't have problems before?
you could be overexerting yourself for your present physical condition or you could have new onset of heart or lung disease such as coronary artery disease asthma copd or heart failure. you could also have a respiratory infection. go see your doctor.
why did i almost faint out in the middle of nowhere? didnt know what to do.
hypotension may be caused by dehydration or something more serious. you need to see a doctor so that he/she can look at this in the context of your overall health. for example if you treat it as dehydration and drink a lot of water that would be bad if you have underlying heart failure. so see your doctor and get a plan.
what is the longest you know someone had survived with congestive heart failure?
due to varying degrees of chf & of adherence to treatment there are varying degrees of survival. a mild chf and excellent adherence to therapy in younger patients carries a relatively good prognosis. the opposite is certainly true too!
what is the longest you know someone had survived with congestive heart failure?
that is how long i have been a physician. i am certain there are a few people who have survived longer. depends on the cause of congestive heart failure.
what is right side heart failure vs. left sided?
right heart failure refers to weakness or stiffness involving the right ventricle or lower chamber as opposed to the left ventricle. this causes a unique constellation of symptoms including swelling in abdomen and legs liver malfunction weakness and shortness of breath.
what is right side heart failure vs. left sided?
fluid accumulates during congestive heart failure. when the right side of the heart fails fluid accumulates in the legs and abdomen. when the left side of the heart fails fluid accumulates in the lungs and makes the patient short of breath. not infrequently both sides of the heart fail at the same time.
what's the difference between left vs right heart failure?
in a nutshell left heart failure causes congestion in the lungs: breathlessness with exertion when lying down interfering with sleep cough coughing blood. right heart failure causes congestion in the abdomen and legs: enlarged liver fluid in the abdomen (ascites) swollen intestines with loss of appetite nausea swollen genitals swollen legs/ankles. they often occur together.
what's the safest way to treat right-sided heart failure?
usually therapy is with medications li similar to left heart failure. diuretics beta blockers ace inhibitors. if a specific cause can be identified that should be treated as well. that could coronary heart disease affecting the right ventricle or a lung process that may be causing the right ventricle to work eccessively.
what's the safest way to treat right-sided heart failure?
the best way is to come with a correct diagnosis. the majority of right heart failure can be treated by medication for which you should consult cardiologists who specialize in heart failure. severe form of right heart failure may required a heart replacement therapy such as heart transplant or ventricular assist device.
what water pills thats over-the-counter that is go i have chf. i don't have a doctor i don't have the money.
you may want to find a clinic that can see you. many chf meds are available at walmart as part of their $4/month $10/3 months program. i have many patients on generic meds doing well. please find a clinic you can go to. heart failure can be treated very well these days.
what water pills thats over-the-counter that is go i have chf. i don't have a doctor i don't have the money.
unfortunately there are no water pills (also known as diuretics) that are available over the counter. there are some over-the-counter (otc) pills that are sold as menstrual side effect aids and claim to reduce bloating that list caffeine or pyrilamine as diurectics. these may make one urinate but not in the way that diurectics for heart failure do. do not take these products in any dose ever if you have chf. while chf is not truly cureable it can be very successfully treated and sometimes permanently improved with medications that are mostly generic and inexpensive. if you do not have money you more than likely qualify for medicaid. i encourage you to try to access this program. there are two office for medicaid services in your area depending on the zip code in which you live: south street office st. joseph county dfr 100 w. south street 2nd floor south bend in 46601-2434 telephone/fax: 1-800-403-0864 zip codes 46536 46563 46595 46601 46613 46614 46615 46617 michigan st. office st. joseph county dfr 300 n. michigan street suite 250 south bend in 46601-1251 telephone/fax: 1-800-403-0864 zip codes 46552 46554 46574 46616 46619 46628 it may be a hassle to access medical services through medicaid but with a disease like chf which can be so crippling but also can often be treated very effectively the hassle of applying for government benefits and using them to access the care you need and deserve should be well worth the effort.
what would cause my veins to always bulge with tight red & pounding hands/fingers everytime i get warm or exert myself. i also get short of breath. ?
bulging veins don't necessarily mean much unless in the neck area which could indicate heart failure or chronic lung disease. if you'r having shortness of breath then you need an echocardiogram by a cardiologist to look at your heart performance and rule out heart valve disorder
what would cause my veins to always bulge with tight red & pounding hands/fingers everytime i get warm or exert myself. i also get short of breath. ?
one possible cause of your symptoms could be congestive heart failure. when you exert yourself with this condition the heart can't keep up with the demand and you get short of breath. you may notice signs of increased pressure in the veins if the right side of the heart is affected. if you have this problem you need medical treatment for it.
what sort of problem is an atrial septal defect?
asd is a congenital (present since birth) heart defect in which the wall that separates the 2 upper chambers (atria) is perforated allowing the abnormal mixing of oxygenated and un-oxygenated blood. if large enough it can lead to rhythm disturbances and heart failure but if small no treatment is necessary. echo and mri are very accurate in assessing the severity. it is correctable/curable.
what sort of problem is aortic stenosis?
it is a blockage of the valve leading from the heart. this can result in heart failure and a decrease in the ability of the heart to output blood to the rest of the body due to blockage in the aorta.
what would cause my right foot to swell? congestive heart failure has been ruled out. no injury to this foot.
if a deep venous thrombosis has been ruled out then you need to see a vascular surgeon as you may have lymphedema.
what would cause my right foot to swell? congestive heart failure has been ruled out. no injury to this foot.
other possibilities: chr. venous insufficiency lymphedema unlikely small clot below knee fluid in the ankle 2 to arthritic process (gout) urticariai allergic to shoe or 2nd to compression of footwear insect bites cellulitis ( infection) raynaud syndrome suggest to see a podiatrist.
what is ami? is it serious of desease?
heart is a pump. poor blood flow and/or blockage of blood flow leads to poor oxygen flow to muscle downstream from the blockage causes cell death (infarction) scarring of the area-muscle can't pump right if scarred can cause electrical disturbances (some benign some can be fatal) can lead to pump failure (congestive heart failure). varies with size location. a big deal. see your doc.
what are the signs of congestive heart failure?
symptoms & signs of chf are shortness of breath with minimal exertion or at rest getting tired or fatigued easily sleepin on more than one pillow getting up at night short of breath swelling of both legs retention of fluid in abdomen.
what are the signs of congestive heart failure?
low energy shortness of breath trouble laying flat elevated neck veins and central veinous pressures are som.
where are the chordae tendinae located?
the chordae are support structures for the mitral and tricuspid valves. when they are damaged valvar insufficiency results. this can be severe enough to cause congestive heart failure either acute or chronic.
what is the significance hypertension and what are the causes of it?
hypertension if untreated may damage the kidneys and result in a need for dialysis. it may also cause strokes or heart failure. most cases have no cause or are genetic. being overweight is a risk as is high salt intake. rarely there are reversible causes such as a narrowed artery to the kidney.
what is the life expectancy of mitral stenosis?
mitral stenosis can cause disabling heart failure in the 40s or lesser symptoms later in life. the disease is becoming quite uncommon in united states and is more often seen in patients born overseas. in cases detected early and the valve is repaired or replaced the life expectancy should be the same as a healthy patient of the same age.
when should we choose dopamine over dobutamine in treating congestive cardiac failure?
dopamine has more affect on blood pressure (raises it). dobutamine increases heart (myocardial) contractility so it makes the heart muscle beat stronger and subsequently increases cardiac output. they are often used together for people with heart failure and low bp.
what are some of the consequences of coronary artery blockage?
spectrum of problems including angina heart attacks arrhythmias heart failure and sudden death.
what are the systems affected by congestive heart failure?
the lungs see increased pressure backing up causing fluid accumulation. chronically decreased forward flow from the heart often causes kidney damage. rarely if there are high enough pressures backing up to the lungs this transmits from the lungs to the right side of the heart and you can get back up from there to the liver causing passive congestion and sometimes even cirrhosis.
what are the systems affected by congestive heart failure?
chf is a symptom complex. many cardiac problems can cause chf. generally loss of exercise capacity shortness of breath fatigue and sometimes peripheral swelling we call edema is present. chf can be right sided left sided or biventricular. it can be caused by systolic diastolic or valvar problems. it affects the whole body and all its systems.
what places do enhanced external counter pulsation treatments?
these treatments are usual performed in an out patient setting. depending upon where you live the services are provided by heart hospital heart failure service or cardiac rehab facility. check your local hospital or ask your physician.
what are the warning signs for chf?
signs of heart failure would include shortness of breath ankle swelling weight gain inability to lay flat and poor exercise tolerance.
what would damage to the chordae tendinae in the left ventricle result in?
damage to the chordae tendinae would result in problems with the closure and sealing of the mitral valve and would lead to mitral regurgitation or leaking and possibly heart failure.
what would damage to the chordae tendinae in the left ventricle result in?
the chordae are support structures for the mitral and tricuspid valves. when they are damaged valvar insufficiency results. this can be severe enough to cause congestive heart failure either acute or chronic.
why shouldn't you lay a chf patient supine?
when a person lies flat blood that has pooled in the legs and abdomen (from gravity) returns to the heart. the extra volume typically causes no problems for healthy persons. in pts with heart failure (chf) however the failing heart cannot pump the extra fluid so the pressures in the chambers increase. blood backs up into the lungs causing trouble breathing. this is relieved by sitting up.
what are the side effects of having high blood pressure?
having high blood pressure puts you at risk for a heart attack stroke heart failure chronic kidney disease intracerebral hemorrhage retinopathy etc. this is why a healthy well balanced diet exercise and antihypertensive medication (when needed) are vital to staying healthy.
what is the use of a left ventricular assist device (lvad)?
typically and lvad has been used in the setting of a patient with advanced congestive heart failure (chf) where the patient is being listed for or is awaiting a heart transplantation. more recently lvad's have been approved as destination therapy. on occasion we see patients who recover from their chf through the use of an lvad but that is not very common. there are multiple lvad types now.
what is the use of a left ventricular assist device (lvad)?
lvad (left ventricle assist device) are implanted pumps powered by an external battery that assist the left side of the heart to pump blood. it is implanted in patients with severe heart failure in whom medications alone are not enough ( such as our former vp dick cheney).
what is the use of a left ventricular assist device (lvad)?
lvads are used for end stage heart failure either as bridge to transplant or as destination therapy for those who are not candidates for transplantation.
why there is no pain associated with mitral stenosis?
heart pain is usually associated with poor blood flow to the muscle of your heart. this can happen because of blocked arteries or thickened heart muscle from high blood pressure or aortic stenosis. mitral stenosis usually doesn't cause the pumping chambers to thicken. ms symptoms are usually shortness of breath and heart failure.
who are the decision makers in getting a heart transplant?
transplant centers have a multidisiplinary team that discuss treatment options for terminal heart failure patients and make recomendations based on unos guidelines.
what is the nursing intervention of chf?
chf is usually manage with iv lasix followed by oral lasix to offload the heart by reducing preload and getting fluid out of the body. one should get an echocardiogram to evaluate if it's systolic or diastolic or a combination of both leading to the heart failure and optimize a heart with medications such as coreg lisinopril lipitor (atorvastatin) aspirin.
what types of patients gets congestive heart failure?
those with heart attack or coronary disease leaking valves hypertension primary heart muscle disease (cardiomyopathy) anemia overactive thyroid chemotherapy or itamin deficiency.
what types of patients gets congestive heart failure?
patients with heart attacks and chronic coronary artery disease; patients with severe chronic valvular heart disease; patients with structural heart disease like hypertrophic cardiomyopathies; renal failure patients with fluid overload; connective tissue disease like lupus just to say few.
what is diastolic heart failure and how is it different from congestive heart failure?
the heart has to squeeze effectively but also has to be able to relax inbetween squeezing to allow adequate filling. if it can't relax that is considered diastolic heart failure. congestive heart failure can be either systolic (the squeezing action) or diastolic (the relaxing function). impairment of either one or both can lead to congestive heart failure.
what is diastolic heart failure and how is it different from congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure can be divided into systolic and diastolic types. systolic heart failure means the heart doesn't pump well enough because the muscles are weak and squeeze very well. diastolic heart failure means the muscles of the heart are too stiff. as a result the heart can't fill with blood very easily which also means it can't function as well as a pump.
what is diastolic heart failure and how is it different from congestive heart failure?
diastolic heart failure is a subclass of congestive heart failure. chf can result from systolic heart failure (failure to contract properly) from diastolic heart failure (failure to relax the heart) or from valvular heart disease. volume overload from renal failure can also cause chf.
what is diastolic heart failure and how is it different from congestive heart failure?
chf can be diastolic or systolic or mixed. diastolic dysfunction is a problem with dilatation of heart whereas systolic dysfunction is a problem with contraction of the heart.
what's the difference between the icu (intensive care unit) and a ccu (critical care unit)?
in most cased ccu is a"cardiac care unit" usually taking care of critically ill cardiac patients such as mis severe heart failure. icu "intensive care units" usually have critically ill general medical patients such as pneumonias.
why is it called congestive heart failure?
because the heart doesn't pump blood well enough when it is "failing" fluid tends to back up in the legs and lungs. this can cause weight gain and difficulty breathing.
why is it called congestive heart failure?
it is called heart failure because the heart fails to pump the blood effectively. because the blood is not pumped out of the lungs effectively the fluid backs up in the lungs so the lungs become congested with this excess fluid build up. thus the name.
why is it called congestive heart failure?
when the heart isn't able to pump effectively pressure builds up behind the heart and causes fluid to build up in the lungs causing "congestion".
what happens if you don't catch an asd in a child until after the age of 10yo does this mean their heart is damaged for life?
as a ped cardiologist i see this every year. asds do not generally cause problems early in life. unrepaired they may lead to abnormal heart rhythms (5% by age 20 and 50% by age 50) and can lead to pulmonary hypertension or right-sided heart failure in adulthood. for a 10 yo the asd may be closed when convenient within the next year. expect a complete recovery.
what will happen if i don’t' close the asd in my child's heart?
large and long-standing atrial septal defects can damage your heart and lungs. an adult who has had an atrial septal defect for decades may have a shortened life span from heart failure or high blood pressure in the lungs.
what happens if you don't correct pulmonic stenosis in your child?
pulmonary stenosis can be mild moderate or severe depending on echo findings. if mild or moderate pulmonary stenosis it can be just watched without intervention. if severe it will need to have ballon inserted in it and dilate it. if severe ps left untreated it can cause breathing problems and heart failure.
what conditions could benefit from cardiac rehabilitation?
there is very strong scientific evidence showing that cardiac rehabilitation is beneficial in people after a heart attack heart surgery heart failure transplant. the benefits include improved physical fitness reduction in risk factors fewer hospitalizations better long-term survival and quality of life! strongly recommend it!
why do people with lung disease often die of heart failure?
copd / emphysema patients develop right heart dysfunction late in the disease (called cor pulmonale)- this can result in fluid gain edema and heart failure.
why do people with lung disease often die of heart failure?
the heart not only pumps blood to the body but also to the lungs. there are two sides to the heart -- the right and left. the right side pumps blood into and out of the lungs to get oxygen; the left side then pumps blood with oxygen to the body. severe lung disease closes down lung blood vessels. this can make it so hard to pump blood to the lungs that the heart can't keep working and fails.
what is meant by congestive heart disease?
i am asumming you mean congestive heart failure. when the heart muscle is too weak to pump fluid gets accumulated in the lungs the legs and under the skin even intraabdominally and even in the scrotum. pts. get difficulty to breath and intolerance to physical effort that is progressive associated to general fatigue. has multiple causes.
what is meant by congestive heart disease?
congestive heart failure is a complex syndrome of inadequate heart function leading to retention of fluid which may be in the lungs and cause breathlessness or may be in the legs and cause swelling. there are many causes such as blocked arteries valve abnormalities weakened heart muscle abnormal stiffness with poor filling. high blood pressure is a common cause. most patients are fatigued.
what is the difference between coronary heart disease and chronic heart disease?
coronary heart disease specifically refers to disease in the blood vessels that supply your heart. blockages in these vessels can cause angina or heart attacks. chronic heart disease is a broader term. it can include coronary disease congestive heart failure valve problems and many more.
what happens if someone has left heart failure?
this is a very complicated question and we only have 400 characters but it generally involves inadequate pumping function of the heart. this ultimately manifests with the buildup of fluid usually in the lungs belly and legs and (in severe cases) decreases in blood pressure and the blood flow to vital organs like the kidneys. the whole process is called decompensation.
what happens if someone has left heart failure?
shortness of breath dyspnea on exertion paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea pedal edema pulmonary edema.
what are some of the benefits of a human heart transplant?
heart transplantation is reserved for end stage heart failure where the quality of life is poor (patients have symptoms with minimal exertion or at rest) and death is imminent (usually one year survival less than 50%). a new heart gives patients an excellent quality of life and longevity (average person survives ~ 12 years after a transplant with some surviving close to 20 years).
what are some of the benefits of a human heart transplant?
pts who are successfully transplanted have improved survival rates and less frquent admission to hospital for heart failure.
what are the effects of a leaking mitral valve?
minor leak: no problem more severe leak: puts heart muscle under stress and can cause heart failure with shortness of breath swelling of the feet.
what are the effects of a leaking mitral valve?
a mild amout of leak or "regurgitation" is common and has no real effect. more significant regurgitation can lead to heart failure. i often explain to my patients that with more significant regurgitation it is as if the heart takes one step forward and a half a step back with each beat. this can tire the muscle out over time.
what is the difference between angina coronary artery disease and heart disease?
angina and angina equivalents are symptoms of cad: coronary artery disease - which is often pooled with other heart aliments and described as heart disease. heart disease could potentially encompass other conditions such as congestive heart failure chf atrial fibrillation or flutter af kinds of cardiomyopathy bundle branch block and valve disorders and potentially more.
what is the significance of essential hypertension?
think of high blood pressure as stressing almost every organ and vessel in the body (increases wall tension of vessels and increases plaque build-up). it is often called the "silent killer" because usually there are no symptoms but over years can result in cardiac disease heart failure kidney failure decreased circulation in feet blindness and stroke.
what is constrictive pericarditis?
the heart is wrapped in a double layer of thick fibrous tissue called the pericardium. normally only a few drops of lubricating fluid is present in this potential space. following an infection or radiation or trauma (or a few other causes) the two surfaces scar down and don't allow the heart to fill with blood during diastole which "constricts" it and causes a form of congestive heart failure.
what are signs of high cardiac output?
you can't generally feel it. in extreme cases it can lead to congestive heart failure. if symptoms are present they are more likely to be due to the underlying condition which is precipitating the high cardiac output state (like sepsis fever infection trauma thyroid excess etc).
what is a vasodilatation drug for chf?
the word we used for vasoldilator drugs in congestive heart failure is afterload reduction. these medications make it easier for the heart to empty at the time of contraction. examples would be lisinopril enalapril losartan valsartan. these medicines are frequently used in conjunction with diuretics and beta blockers.
what should i do about shortness of breath? i am feeling short of breath but can breathe. should i go to the emergency room or just go see my doctor?
i will get into some specifics in a minute but will summarize first- shortness of breath can mean a lot of things many of which are quite dangerous. so yes you should go to an emergency room. now to answer your question in more detail. when i see a patient who is complaining of shortness of breath- i always think of certain disease processes and try to rule them out either with testing or by historical information and exam. asthma is common but unlikely to present in adulthood. pneumonia is common usually accompanied by fever and productive cough. pulmonary embolism (a "blood clot" in the lungs) is often (but not always) preceded by leg pain and swelling is more common in women the elderly people with cancer smokers and overweight people. congestive heart failure is usually preceded by heart problems or a history of high blood pressure and often the patient will also have leg swelling. certainly heart attacks can present with shortness of breath and no chest pain. as you can see all of these potential problems (and many more) would require a doctor's evaluation as soon as possible.
what should i do about congestion and trouble breathing in the mornings? every morning i wake up congested and short of breath. i don't have any pets and no known allergies. the congestion goes away as the day progresses. what could be causing this?
there are many different causes of feeling the sensation of shortness of breath the most serious of which are those arising from a heart or lung problem. some causes of feeling breathless manifest with subtle patterns e. g. with symptoms that change with the time of day. only a detailed history and examination from your doctor can help provide a clue what the cause of the symptoms could be. for example feeling shortness of breath due to congestive heart failure can result in feeling breathless when lying down flat (e. g. on a bed) or in the middle of the night. conversely symptoms of asthma are typically worse in the mornings and slowly dissipate through the day. this however is not specific for asthma as conditions such as hypersensitivity pneumonitis (inhaled lung allergies) for example can arise from something as simple as your down-comforter. this will result in feeling breathless in the morning when you are exposed to a down-comforter and go away during the day when you are away from your bed. this example illustrates the complexity of trying to determine the cause of feeling breathless as many people will not know if they can be allergic to something like a down-comforter unless they see a pulmonary specialist. coexisting symptoms such as congestion can also provide a clue with regards to the cause but again the type of congestion matters. chronic nasal congestion (blocked nose) suggests a problem such as allergy-related. feeling congested within the chest especially in association with wheezing suggests asthma.
what causes an enlarged heart? what causes an enlarged heart and why are people with enlarged heart more at risk with their health?
there are many causes of an enlarged heart and the heart can enlarge in different ways. in some conditions the heart chambers dilate and the heart muscle weakens. this dilation most often occurs as a consequence of prior heart attacks which is called ischemic cardiomyopathy. it can also be caused by toxins such as excessive alcohol genetic abnormalities metabolic derangements such as thyroid disease or sometimes occurs with no apparent cause (idiopathic cardiomyopathy). in some other conditions the heart muscle thickens excessively as opposed to dilating and this also leads to an enlarged heart. the most common cause of a thick heart is untreated hypertension but it can also be caused by a genetic condition called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy or can also occur when substances infiltrate and replace heart muscle. people with an enlarged heart are at increased risk for a few different reasons. if the heart muscle weakens they can develop congestive heart failure which causes many symptoms and increases the risk of death. people with an enlarged heart are also at increased risk for arrhythmias which in certain circumstances can cause cardiac arrest.
what is the connection between sepsis gout hypertension and heart failure (chf)?
gout may predispose to secondary joint or renal infection. infection can produce sepsis which can exacerbate heart failure by multiple mechanisms. hypertension may lead to heart failure.
what is the connection between sepsis gout hypertension and heart failure (chf)?
there is no clear link in the various processes listed above but morbid obesity put you at risk for all of these. . if i saw a thin patient with all of those i'd say that central sleep apnea could account for three (sepsis heart failure and hypertension) but not gout. with weight loss heart failure hypertension and gout can be easier controlled or eliminated.
what is the connection between sepsis gout hypertension and heart failure (chf)?
my best answer is they can all occur do to the domino effect of a serious disease.
who is likely to have a pulmonary embolism?
there are multiple risk factors for getting a pulmonary embolism. the main ones include right heart failure immobility lower extremity surgery trauma to the leg inheritable clotting disorders having a solid organ cancer and taking oral contraceptives.
with my pulmonary hypertension should i sleep with my legs elevated?
but again you need to see a pulmonary hypertension doctor to assess the need for medications as leg swelling can be a sign of right heart failure and elevation of the legs will not be the main treatment.
what makes someone eligible to get a heart transplant?
end stage heart failure intractable angina or ventricular arthythmias are the most common indications for heart transplant. eligibility screening includes a thorough evaluation: medical (to rule out contraindications such as active cancer bad diabetes etc. ) social (good support system non user of tobacco heavy alcohol or drugs) and financial (ability to pay for meds afterwards).
what makes someone eligible to get a heart transplant?
pts that fail a maximal oral medical therapy reqiure multiple admissions to the hospital visits requiring iv medications to stay out of heart failure. pts that require an asist device such a lvad are the types of pts that are cosidered for transplant. an vo2 stress test muga scan heartcaths etc are tests done to eval pts. elderly pts smokers morbidly obese and pts with poor compliance r excluded.
what does the abbreviation chf mean?
congestive heart failure. as a simple explanation one can say this is a condition in which the heart has difficulty providing blood flow to the tissues and organs of the body. the heart muscle is usually weak too stiff or both.
what does the abbreviation chf mean?
chf = congestive heart failure = a condition where the heart muscle is weak and fluid backs up and leaks into the air spaces in the lungs causing shortness of breath.
what does the abbreviation chf mean?
"chf" stands for congestive heart failure.
what is the typical treatment for right side heart failure?
unfortunately our understanding and treatment of right heart failure is not at the level of left heart failure. one has to be careful with fluid management because in the case of right heart failure you're actually dependent on volume to keep the function of the heart going therefore overly aggressive fluid management treatments often backfire. the balance is much more important here.
what is the typical treatment for right side heart failure?
management with diuretics and search & treatment of underlying cause if possible.
what are the symptoms of mitral valve prolapse?
if its mild no symptoms are likely. if moderate palpitaions and some shortness of breath with exercise. severe mvp usually reults in significant regurgitation with atrial fibrillation and possible heart failure.
what does spironolactone do to help heart failure?
the medication is a diuretic and helps to remove fluid in those that are congested due to heart failure. however it not only improves symptoms but actually reduces risk of dying in chf patients probably due to inhibiting the renin-angiotensin system which is dysregulated in heart failure patients and felt to have adverse consequences on the heart and vasculature.
what does spironolactone do to help heart failure?
when combined with accepted drugs such as beta blockers and ace inhibitors spironolactone which is an aldosterone antagonist helps improve mortality and morbidity in heart failure.
what is an abdominal left ventricular assist device used for?
severe weakness of the heart muscle the assist device acts as a booster and can be used to bridge patients with severe heart failure to heart transplant or as a destination device if the patient is not a good candidate for transplant.
what is an abdominal left ventricular assist device used for?
ventricular assist devices are used for end stage heart failure. they improve the quality of life and prolong survival. they are used as bridge to transplant or as destination therapy in those who are not transplant candidates.
what is the significance of stage 3 hypertension?
the consensus panels that assess best management of high blood pressure have traditionally "staged" blood pressure severity with the higher numbers the worse it is. stage 3 (or now 2) high blood pressure conveys high risk of cardiovascular complications (heart attack heart failure stroke kidney damage peripheral arterial disease). aggressive treatment is undoubtedly required.
why is albuterol not used on patients with chf?
patients with heart failure are prone to develop heart rhythm disturbances some of which can be fatal. albuterol can stimulate the heart and produce rhythm disturbances that will be potentially dangerous for patients with heart failure.
what does mitral stenosis results in?
mitral stenosis restricts the blood flow from the lungs into the left ventricle (main pumping chamber). so the pressure builds in the left atrium and it dilates. the pressure also builds in the lungs. the left ventricle has trouble filling so it pumps less blood to the body. so as stenosis worsens patients develop shortness of breath funny heart beats heart failure high blood press in lungs.
what are common symptoms of heart failure in women?
in both men and women shortness of breath lower extremity edema dyspnea on exertion and on lying flat.
what are common symptoms of heart failure in women?
shortness of breath with minimal exertion shortness of breath when lying down requiring one to sit up or lie in bed propped up (orthopnea) awakening with shortness of breath (paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea) swelling of the ankles fatigue.
why could you get inflammation of a heart valve?
bacteria in the blood stream from an infection can infect a heart valve causing severe inflammation and damage and leading to heart failure stroke need for heart valve surgery and/or death. occasionally heart valves can be inflamed from other chronic inflammatory medical conditions (such as lupus).
what does an intracardiac tumor feel like in the body?
intracardiac tumors are within the heart and therefore can not be felt. usually no symptoms are present. some can dislodge and present with stroke like results. others can obstruct flow across valves and cause heart failure like symptoms when large enough.
what can result in a decrease in cardiac output?
heart failure can lead to decreased output which can occur for a variety of reasons the major one being a heart attack. very slow heart rate can also lead to a decreased co which is the product of stroke volume and heat rate.
what can result in a decrease in cardiac output?
1) afterload (high bp or stiff valves) - the heart is pushing blood against a tougher obstacle 2) preload (sepsis shock or dehydration) - not enough blood to pump 3) low hr (less beats total) 4) low inotropy (heart failure heart attack or inflammation) - the heart squeezes less forcefully with each beat. ok - a bonus 5th - shunt: the heart swirls blood around w/o it going anywhere.
what are some of the complications of congestive heart failure?
the immediate effect is back-up of pressure into the lungs causing congestion there. due to the poor forward flow out of the heart the kidneys often are affected and the need for diuretic medications to clear up the lungs can worsen kidney function even more. liver disease even cirrhosis can occur if back-up extends all the way through the right side of the heart.
what are some of the complications of congestive heart failure?
shortness of breath swelling of the feet and abdomen recurrent admissions to the hospital and at times sudden death from arrhythmias.
what does an elevated diastolic pressure indicate?
same as elevated systolic pressure: the risk of stroke congestive heart failure heart attack kidney disease and death are all elevated.
what happens if someone's bicuspid valve does not close properly?
if the bicuspid valve does not close properly one can develop aortic regurgitation which in time may lead to left ventricular enlargement and heart failure. depending on the degree of the regurgitation ('leakage') one can treat it with medications and at some point a valve replacement may be needed. you need to have this followed with echocardiograms at regular intervals to monitor progression.
what information is a person given before enhanced external counter pulsation?
eecp is generally considered for patients that are not candidates for revascularization but have on-going stable chest pain or angina symptoms. patients who have serious heart failure or heart valve problems uncontrolled hypertension peripheral vascular disease (pvd) blockages - 80% of heart disease patients have pvd pregnant or have bleeding disorders including ulcers should not have eecp.
what are the effects of pericarditis?
most patients who suffere viral pericarditis have a limited disease that resolves in 2-3 weeks. occasionally some patients have a more protracted course and with more severe symptoms. some of these patiens go and develop chornic pericarditis with thickening of the prericardium and eventually symptoms of congestive heart failure.
what drugs can cause heart failure?
there are several drugs used to treat specific types of cancer that are associated with the development of heart failure. the most common are doxorubicin cyclophosphamide and trastuzamab. this doesn't mean that they should not be used but that their use should be carefully monitored. alcohol cocaine and amphetamines can also cause heart failure.
what drugs can cause heart failure?
ceratain chemotherapy drugs like adriamycin (doxorubicin) can damage the heart leading to chf and some antidiabetic and arthritis drugs can worsen preexisting chf.
what is the significance of mitral valve stenosis?
mitral stenosis is a narrowing of the mitral valve caused by rheumatic fever. progressive narrowing of the mitral valve can cause heart rhythm disturbances and the development of heart failure symptoms. this condition can be corrected with either mitral balloon valvuloplasty or surgery.
what is the significance of mitral valve stenosis?
it means that you had (whether or not you know it) rheumatic fever with scarring of your valve. when severe it causes atrial fibrillation and congestive heart failure. when it causes symptoms it requires surgical intervention with commissurotomy or valve replacement.
what are enhanced external counter pulsation's contraindications?
moderate to severe aortic regurgitation active heart failure severe peripheral vascular disease and recent cardiac cath. also atrial fibrillation can be a problem.
what happens in congestive heart failure?
when the heart is not functioning normally neurologic and endocrine signals are sent to the kidney to retain salt and water. fluid buildup in the body causing shortness of breath and swelling of the lower extremities.
what happens in congestive heart failure?
shortness of breath doing normal activities the need to sit up or get out of bed to catch your breath swelling of the legs and less commonly of the abdomen. fatigue and weakness.
what is the difference between left heart failure and right heart failure?
left heart failure reduces the ability of the heart to pump bold to the body. it is mainly caused by chronic hypertension coronary artery disease or valve disease. it causes fliuid to build up in lungs. right heart failure is the inability to pump blood to the lungs. it is mainly caused by lung disease or by pressure in lungs from left heart failure. fluid then builds up in the bodies veins.
what is the difference between left heart failure and right heart failure?
when the left heart fails the lungs become congested and the most prominent symptom is breathlessness. when the right heart fails all other organs except the lungs become congested and it is not unusual to get fluid in the liver back genitalia and legs. very often the 2 are present together with all of the above and fluid in the pleural spaces and abdomen as well.
what are the risks involved if you have high blood pressure?
heart attack stroke congestive heart failure if left untreated.
what are the risks involved if you have high blood pressure?
stroke. heart attack kidney failure heart failure and many more see and search web md.
what are the effects of diphtheria have on the mitral valve?
diphtheria does not affect the mitral valve. (rheumatic fever can). diphtheria can cause a dilated cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure.
what is a thickened pericardium?
the pericardium is the fibrous covering that surrounds the heart. on echo ct or mri it can appear to be thick and is read as such but there is no clinical significance unless it causes abnormal physiology called constrictive pericarditis. cp results in a syndrome which is similar to congestive heart failure.
what is the difference between heart failure and congestive heart failure?
these terms are used interchangeably.
what is the difference between heart failure and congestive heart failure?
they are frequently used interchangeably now but there is a rare type of heart failure that is not congestive but is high output caused by other things such as severe anemia.
when is coarctation of the aorta diagnosed?
diagnosis of coarct can be made by physical exam. pt usually will have upper extremity hypertension with diminished lower extemity pulses. they usually a murmur. it can be continuous machine like murmur that radiates to the back or a murmur of bicuspid aortic valve disease whis is associated. pts tend to die in their mid 30s if not treated. usually from berry aneurysm in brain heart failure mi etc.
what are possible cures of congestive heart failure?
it would probably be more corrrect to talk about things which control the congestive heart failure. there are many medications which control but really do not cure it. sometimes cardiomyopathies resolve and no longer require medicine so that would be considered a cure i think. if the heart failure is because of a valve problem which is corrected you might "cure" the heart failure(fix valve).
what are possible cures of congestive heart failure?
depends on the cause. talk to your cardiologist.
what are some of the characteristics of diastolic heart failure?
most commonly shortness of breath with exertion. in advanced cases you may have leg swelling and at times people with very high blood pressure may have chest pains as well.
what are some of the characteristics of diastolic heart failure?
if by characteristics you mean symptoms the symptoms of diastolic heart failure otherwise known as heart failure with preserved left ventricular function are difficult to distinguish from those of heart failure due to poor cardiac function. shortness of breath is probably the most common symptom with swelling of the legs and abdomen being other symptoms.
what are factors that contribute to heart failure?
hypertension and coronary artery disease.
what are factors that contribute to heart failure?
probably the 2 major conditions that contribute to the development of heart failure are high blood pressure and diabetes. both of these conditions can have a direct detrimental effect on the heart or cause heart failure through the development of coronary artery disease. at least 75% of people with heart failure in united states have a history of high blood pressure.
what are the consequences of ignoring coronary artery disease?
atherosclerosis known to start ~age 7 on average most commonly becomes obvious by reducing/stopping blood supply to portions of the heart muscle; heart attacks (most asymptomatic until large) resulting in congestive heart failure angina and/or premature death. stress testing all forms completely miss the problem until after the disease is quite advanced & after most smaller heart attacks.
what are the worst consequences of heart bypass?
the worst consequence of all would be death but others would include heart failure (a weak heart) infection (mediastinitis) pericardial effusion (fluid around the heart) stroke heart attack and others. fortunately in good hands these are pretty rare.
what's so bad about high blood pressure? is it really that harmful?
pandora it is truly like opening pandora's box! it the leading cause of congestive heart failure stroke atrial fibrillation and kidney failure. it is a major risk factor for heart attack and eye disease. yes it's a very treatable and preventable factor and it's control has been instrumental in prolonging our life expectancy in the 20th century!
what are the side effects to eecp?
possible complications listed by some eecp centers include: headache dizziness muscle aches skin irritation from the cuffs irregular heart rates and sometimes increased symptoms of heart failure.
what are the interventions for congestive heart failure?
therapy for congestive heart failure can be divided into 3 categories: 1) medications which remove fluid (diuretics) making it easier for the heart pump (afterload reduction) or protect the heart (beta blocker) 2) devices such as biventricular pacemaker is which makes the heart work better and 3) surgery to repair structural heart problems such as a leaking valve or a blocked coronary.
what are the interventions for congestive heart failure?
treatment depends on what the cause of the chf is. could be surgical could be medical. systolic chf is different from diastolic chf and valvar stenosis chf is different from valvar insufficiency chf. virtually all kinds have diuretic as part of the treatment.
what are the kinds of hypertension?
systolic (upper number) diastolic (lower number) borderline or pre stage 1 (mild) stage 2 (severe) stage 3 (especially severe - used in europe) white coat (only seen in the drs office) resistant (still elevated despite 5 drugs) malignant (causing serious symptoms like heart failure encephalopathy or kidney failure) essential (cause unknown) secondary(cause known).
what is the criteria for receiving a heart transplant?
end stage heart failure that is not responding to medications with other qualifiers such as ability to be able to take multiple medications to prevent rejection.
what drug can be prescribed for chf?
usually a cocktail of ace inhibitors beta blockers diuretics are the key drugs in treating heart failure.
what are the risks involved in congestive heart failure and pregnancy?
if a person is predisposed to congestive heart failure pregnancy can be tricky. blood volume is increased in pregnancy and this may not be tolerated by those with underlying heart disease. during labor fluid shifts can occur with placental bleeding iv meds/fluids etc. and close observation is warranted. some of the standard chf meds can harm the fetus and may need to be stopped.
what are the risks involved in congestive heart failure and pregnancy?
peripartum cardiomyopathy is a rare condition but serious. avoid high blood pressure reduce salt intake ans see ur doctor regularly.
what are the consequences of coarctation of the aorta?
some of the complications that may occur are high blood pressure rupture of the aorta stroke premature heart disease and weakening or bulging of arteries in the brain. if aortic coarctation is left untreated it could unfortunately lead to heart disease heart failure and death.
what are the consequences of coarctation of the aorta?
untreated it leads to congestive heart failure stroke and death. (luckily nowadays it can be treated).
what does it mean when i feel like i have butterflies in my heart? i cough a lot when it happens/ i can not sleep laying down i need to sit up or i can't breathe
being short of breath lying down is called orthopnea often associated with paroxysmal dyspnea - awakening in the night short of breath and having to sit up to catch your breath. cough can also be a sign of heart failure with buildup of fluid on the lungs. get in to see your doctor. a echocardiogram may be needed.
what does it mean when i feel like i have butterflies in my heart? i cough a lot when it happens/ i can not sleep laying down i need to sit up or i can't breathe
if you are having shortness of breath laying down and need to sit up to breathe something is wrong. yoe should be evaluated first for congestive heart failure. step number one would be to get an echocardiogram. see a cardiologist as soon as possible!
what is meant by pulmonary heart disease?
a few possibilities here. here's one. basically the lungs and heart are somewhat tied together in what they do for the body. if the lungs have a chronic disease process (copd? ) it puts stress on the heart. you can get heart failure from this chronic lung disease. specifically right heart failure. the "right" just means the right side of heart is affected.
what is meant by pulmonary heart disease?
pulmonary heart disesase (also called cor pulmonale) is when pressure is high in the lungs causing the right heart to dilate and fail. pulmonary hypertension can occur in a variety of lung diseases or by itself. when the right heart enlarges it does not pump effectively and fluid builds up in the legs and abdomen (right heart failure). this is what is meant by pulmonary heart disease.
what is heart valve disease exactly?
heart valves are structures in the heart that open to let blood pass and then close for example between beats to keep blood moving in the right direction. there are many kinds of valve disease including calcified narrow or leaky valves. these problems are mostly mild and don't cause problems but can cause chest pain breathing trouble or heart failure and may need to be treated or fixed.
what are some common symptoms of advanced congestive heart failure?
shortness of breath at rest inability to stand up from bed and walk ( ny class iv) accumulation of fluid starting with the legs up to the whole body and lungs causing crackle sounds in the chest lowering of blood pressure tahycardia ( unless taking beta blockers)and worsening of the kidney function and sometimes even worsening of the liver function ( because the congestion).
what are some common symptoms of advanced congestive heart failure?
advanced heart failure symptoms include difficulty breathing (particularly if lying flat) and swelling (usually of the legs). the difficulty breathing and swelling are both related to fluid that "backs up" into the lungs and legs because the heart is not pumping blood effectively.
what exactly is pulmonary hypertension?
high blood pressure (bp) in the lungs is called pulmonary hypertension (ph) or pulmonary arterial hypertension (pah). pah is a chronic and life-changing disease that can lead to right heart failure if left untreated.
what are some symptoms of renal artery disease?
three major problems with renal artery stenosis: 1: severe difficult to control hypertension 2: kidney failure ( detected by a blood test) 3: severe heart failure pulmonary edema severe shortness of breath.
why does over-exercising trigger sudden heart failure?
its usually not 'sudden'. its usually pre-existing heart disease that wasnt caught ahead of time.
why does over-exercising trigger sudden heart failure?
where did you hear this?
what is heart failure rehabilitation exactly?
heart failure rehabilitation is a program that is called to retrain a failed heart muscle in order to regain some of its basic functions - contractility relaxation etc. it usually includes certain cardiovascular and other types of exercises in graduated fashion to help the heart muscle build up its strength.
what is heart failure rehabilitation exactly?
can start shortly after event with educational components of the program to begin to get patient in recovery mode. the physical training components require the rhythm and hemodynamics to be stable and the other parts of patients physiology to be functioning well. often however patient isn't even referred till much later in their progress. education is a major component.
what is involved in heart failure rehabilitation?
a big part is education and learning how to live with heart failure. dietary changes medication education symptoms to watch for. it may involve helping you to get active again as well. each program is different but they typically will give you an overview on the first day.
what is involved in heart failure rehabilitation?
it is a structured program run by medical professionals that includes supervised exercises tailored to your medical and physical condition education on how to control your risk factors for heart disease. multiple scientific studies have shown it significantly improves patient outcomes like survival quality of life reduced hospital readmission improved control of cardiac risk factors.
what is involved in heart failure rehabilitation?
treatment of congestive heart failure in general involves medications proper diet and exercise to increase stamina. the diet generally should be salt restricted and with adequate nutritional value the exercise should be mostly aerobic and the medications are really dependent on the underlying disease leading to heart failure and the type of heart failure.
what are the benefits of cardiac rehabilitation in females with heart failure?
the cardiac rehab always will benefit the patient.!
what are the benefits of cardiac rehabilitation in females with heart failure?
cardiac rehab is a structured program run by medical professionals that includes supervised exercises tailored to your medical & physical condition education on how to control your risk factors for heart disease. multiple scientific studies have shown it improves patient outcomes like quality of life survival physical fitness reduced re-hospitalization better control of cardiac risk factors.
what's the difference between hypertension and pulmonary hypertension?
high blood pressure in the lungs is called pulmonary hypertension (ph) or pulmonary arterial hypertension (pah). pah is a chronic and life-changing disease that can lead to right heart failure if left untreated. the diagnosis requires heart catheterization. systemic hypertension (htn) is high blood pressure in the rest of your circulation and is diagnosed with a blood pressure cuff by the doctor.
why does fluid build up around the lungs in congestive heart failure (chf)?
in chf the heart cannot effectively pump blood from the lungs to the systemic circulation. so the fluid cannot move forward and it thus remains backed up in the lungs. the fluid stays in the lungs because the heart is unable to do its job of pumping that from the lungs to the rest of the body.
why does fluid build up around the lungs in congestive heart failure (chf)?
when a pump like the heart is failing fluid backs up behind it. in the body that's where the lungs are. fluid cannot go through the heart fast enough and so blood accumulates in the lungs causing them to be congested with too much fluid. air spaces have fluid in them instead of air making the performance of the lungs impaired.
why does fluid build up around the lungs in congestive heart failure (chf)?
the heart is actually 2 pumps. the right side pumps blood to the lungs. this is generally low pressure system so unless there are other reasons the right ventricle tends to function pretty effectively. the left side is the workhorse pump. the left ventricle is a muscle that can pump a large amount of resistance. when it fails the blood backs up into the lungs because the two pumps are in series.
why would you treat children with coarctation of the aorta?
the how is already answered by dr. rubin. if your question is why treat coarctation it is to improve blood flow to the organs of the lower part of the body prevent severe high blood pressure in upper part of body causing headache dizziness nosebleeds shortness of breath and to prevent eventual development of enlarged heart and heart failure.
what are reasons for possible abnormal results of a pericardiocentesis?
common diagnosis are renal failure heart failure infection and cancer.
why is heart disease one of the major killers of the world?
as countries become more "western" they exercise less and eat a high-fat diet. when a third world countries becomes more like the united states they exercise less drive around in cars and eat a fatty diet. subsequently they develop heart attacks congestive heart failure and heart disease becomes the leading cause of death.
what is the significance of an extra heart valve?
it may affect the other valve and cause irregular heart beats and heart failure.
what people study heart failure?
cardiologists (heart doctors).
what people study heart failure?
general cardiologist --.
what happens in the body with congestive heart failure?
in a healthy patient the heart and kidneys work together to maintain the appropriate amount of salt and water in the body. in the patient with congestive heart failure this equilibrium is upset. salt and water accumulate resulting in shortness of breath swollen legs and inability to exercise. this can be the result of problems with the kidney or the heart.
what happens in the body with congestive heart failure?
heart failure occurs with pump failure for whatevere reason. when the heart fails to pump enough blood out on the left side it is systolic dysfunction and the ejection fraction is less than 40%. when the heart muscle is stiff they call this diastolic dysfunction because it does not fill properly. with pump failure oncotic pressue increases in the vascular system forcing fluid out- lung/feet.
what is too much exercise for chf?
the appropriate amount of exercise for a patient with congestive heart failure is highly variable. some patients will be able to do regular treadmill exercise and other patients can barely walk across the room. an appropriate exercise prescription can be reached after a discussion with a cardiologist who is familiar with the case
what is the usual prognosis for a severe coarctation of the aorta?
untreated coarctation can lead to debilitating claudication heart failure renal failure and death. however coarctation should be a completely curable condition with excellent long term outcomes.
what are some of the symptoms of heart failure?
shortness of breath with activities or even at rest orthopnea paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea (sob and cough at night) palpitations chest pain ankle edema fatigue. all above symptoms depend how acute or chronic is the cause if the chf.
what are some of the symptoms of heart failure?
fatigue and shortness of breath are common symptoms of congestive heart failure along with at times leg edema. unfortunately none of these symptoms are specific to heart failure and one has to have an evaluation by a cardiologist before the diagnosis is made.
who is more likely to get heart valve disease?
usually patients 75 years of age and older are more likely to get heart valve disease. patients with a history of infective endocarditis heart attacks heart failure and/or rheumatic fever are also or more likely to develop heart valve disease.
what are the risks for not having pericardiocentesis for pleural effusion?
thoracentesis is the aspiration of pleural effusion pericardiocentesis is for pericardial fluid. either way if there is abnormal fluid collection making the diagnosis is very important and in general the risks are lower than not doing it. infection heart failure cancer are possibles.
what is the lowest diastolic pressure heart can handle?
dbp measure the pressure in your blood vessels between heartbeats when your heart is resting. recents studies showed that dpb less than 60mmhg with sbp more than 100mmhg (isolated diastolic hypotension) increase the risk of heart failure in older adults. published in hypertension a journal of the aha around 2010 or 2011. stiff arteries and severe hypotension(many causes) can cause low dbp.
what were the outcomes of heart transplant?
cardiac transplant survival is increasing especially in centers that have a very active heart transplant program. the anti-rejection medications have improved so people are living years more than they would have if they did not have transplant. this procedure is for end-stage heart failure with a poor short term survival predicted.
what is the significance of stenosis of the mitral valve?
mitral stenosis is caused by rheumatic fever. if the valve becomes severely stenotic ("blocked") blood doesn't flow into the left ventricle adequately. this results in congestive heart failure and if untreated ultimatedly death. mitral commissurotomy or replacement fixes the problem.
what people are at risk for systolic heart failure?
many of the risk factors for heart dz is also risk factor for systolic heart failure. uncontrolled blood pressure heavy drinkers family history previous heart attack. post partum with history of systolic failure with previous deliveries. severe valve disease like mitral regurgitation and aortic stenosis.
what people are at risk for systolic heart failure?
people with risk factors for coronary artery disease/ischemic heart/prior heart attack/idiopathic cardiomyopathy/viral cardiomiopathy/renal failure and volume overload/malnutrition-anorexia.
where are congestive heart failure clinics located?
most are within a hospital or a hospital outpatient clinic. they could be in a private office as well.
where are congestive heart failure clinics located?
most cardiologists like myself treat patients with different types of heart failure both in the office and hospital settings. this is usually satisfactory for most patients. if you need more specialized care such as consideration for an assist device or transplant i would consider evaluation at a transplant center.
what is and what causes cardiac tamponade?
the pericardium is a "skin" surrounding the heart. it is usually empty though can fill with fluid -from heart failure autoimmune dz cancer or infection- or blood from trauma. when the fluid builds up enough pressure to prevent the heart from expanding to fill with blood tamponade results. this is life-threatening and requires immediate drainage to prevent cardiovascular collapse.
what does chf stand for?
congestive heart failure meaning fluid congestion in various organs such as lungs liver gut and limbs due to inadequate heart function.
what does chf stand for?
congestive heart failure is abbreviated as chf. this is a condition which results in congestion in the lungs due to poor pump power ( systolic dysfunction) due to heart damage like heart attack or weak heart muscle (cardiomyopathy). inability of the heart to accept the volume of blood returning to the heart due to heart stiffness (diastolic dysfunction) can also cause lung congestion.
what does chf stand for?
congestive heart failure.
what is the significance of a narrowed heart valve?
blood will have trouble going between heart chambers and great vessels. depending on the chronicity and the degree of stenosis bad damage can happen to your lung circulation and your heart chambers. consequences can be catastrophic. heart attacks syncope heart failure arrhthmias sudden death. common causes are uncontrol htn congenital bicuspid aortic valve infections/iv street drugs etc.
what happens if someone's heart valve malfunctions?
everything depend on how fast(acute) the disease valve malfunction vs if malfunction slowly through a period of time. almost invariable you will have chest pain with shortness of breath from a congestive heart failure. also depend on the type of malfunction: stenosis vs regurgitation.
what does pericardiocentesis show?
the pericardium is the sac around the heart. it has a small amount of normal clear fluid. if there is more fluid then one needs to find the cause. blood heart failure renal failure pus can be identified with the "centesis" is drawing the sample of fluid.
what heart disease can someone get?
the most common heart diseases are atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries and hypertrophy or thickening of the heart muscle leading to stiffness and abnormal muscle function. at their worst these both can lead to congestive heart failure or the inability of the heart to pumps the blood adequately with a resulting pressure buildup causing fluid to leak back into the lungs.
what are the typical signs and symptoms of mitral stenosis?
palpitations chest pain syncope shortness of breath respiratory failure arrythmias - inluding atrial fibrillation liver failure edema renal insufficiency congestive heart failure.
what are the typical signs and symptoms of mitral stenosis?
early mitral stenosis has minimal symptoms. as it worsens patients may develop fatigue shortness of breath and palpitations. severe stenosis can cause severe pulmonary hypertension. this can cause hemeoptosis and heart failure. another sign is very rosy cheeks.
what are the causes of heart failure?
congestive heart failure or chf can be from many things. different types include systolic dysfxn wich means a weak heart. usually from a virus heart attack or post partum. diastolic dysfxn where the heart is stiff is usually due to hyer tension. high out put heart failure is when things such as hyperthyroidism or anemia. so your question is very broad and you need to narrow it down
what are the causes of heart failure?
coronary artery disease (angina) diseases of the heart muscle (cardiomyopathy). high blood pressure (hypertension). diseases of the heart valves. abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias). medicines alcohol excess cocaine and some types of chemotherapy. severe anaemia thyroid disease (hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism) and paget's disease of bone.
what are the causes of heart failure?
weak heart muscles /hypertrophed heart / valve lek of moderate to severe degree valve narrowing -aoric stenosis /mitral stenosis hypertension to name a few.
what does someone use if he or she has heart failure?
there are medicines and strict diet salt restrictions daily weight monitoring medicines are ace arb betablockers diuretics and afterload reducing agents pacing therappy aicd resynchronization therappy to name a few ultimately transplant and lvad.
what does someone use if he or she has heart failure?
the main stay of management of heart failure is to take less salt and liquids under 6 cups of liquied per 24 hours. there is no medicine that makes the heart significantly stronger so we try not to load it with salt and water. there are some medicines that help including water pills and some bp meds but salt and liquid restriction are the most effective therapy that most people miss.
what does successful bridging with the implantable left ventricular assist device lead to?
bridging with a left ventricular assist device (lvad) implies that the device is intended to keep you alive until you get a heart transplant. it can also help control kidney failure and pulmonary hypertension that can develop from decompensated heart failure.
what are congestive heart failure treatments?
treatment depends on what the cause of the chf is. could be surgical could be medical. systolic chf is different from diastolic chf and valvar stenosis chf is different from valvar insufficiency chf. virtually all kinds have diuretic as part of the treatment.
what are congestive heart failure treatments?
congestive heart failure (chf) unlike what we once thought is not one entity. as such and because there are multiple forms of congestive heart failure one can not devise a -one size fits all- treatment plan for "congestive heart failure". the specifics are too long and complicated for this forum your cardiologist should decide the proper course of treatment for the particular form of chf.
why do people die from heart failure?
because they die from irregular heart beat arrythmia pump failure or volume overload and respiratory failure.
why do people die from heart failure?
with reduced cardiac function the lungs fill with fluid filling the air spaces and impairing gas exchange (backward failure). in some cases of heart failure the blood pressure can't be supported resulting in shock and poor perfusion of vital tissues (forward failure). often both processes are present simulataneously at the end.
why do people die from heart failure?
most common cause if heart is dilated and weakened.
what is the harm of hypertension?
hypertension or high blood pressure is a major cause of stroke. it is also a major risk factor for development of coronary artery disease and congestive heart failure. usually the condition causes no symptoms until far advanced. hypertension can be controlled with medications. it is very important that patients take their medications consistently and have their pressure checked to assure control.
what is the harm of hypertension?
consistent elevated blood pressures above 140 or 90 mmhg can lead to blood vessel damage atherosclerosis and blockages. over time high blood pressure can cause heart attacks angina strokes heart failure (chf) and kidney failure. diet (weight loss and low salt) less alcohol and more exercise can reduce bp. drug treatment is safe and effective though some people need more than one drug.
what does hypertension attack in the body?
hypertension or high blood pressure causes damage to many organs in the body. it can damage the heart by causing a heart attack or heart failure. it can also attack the brain by causing stroke. it can damage the kidneys leading to renal failure. finally it can damage the eyes and cause blindness. for this reason anyone with hypertension should visit a doctor so it can be properly treated.
what does hypertension attack in the body?
the organs damaged by htn are the heart (congestive heart failure and heart attacks) brain (strokes) and the kidneys (kidney failure).
which patients are candidates for cardiac rehabilitation?
cardiac rehabilitation is recommended for post heart surgery post heart attack and for improving the overall functionality in chronic heart failure patients --.
what does coronary heart disease do to the body?
it blocks the coronary arteries leading to chest pain or heart attack. if you get a heart attack it can damage the muscle causing heart failure with shortness of breath and swelling of the feet.
what kind of therapy is dobutamine?
dobutamine stimulates the beta receptors in the heart muscle. it makes it pump more efficiently and is often used in congestive heart failure pts thru an iv.
what is the longest a person could live with mild congestive heart failure?
with proper treatment people with mild heart failure can live a long time and even have a normal life span.
what is the longest a person could live with mild congestive heart failure?
it depends on the cause. there are unquestionably some people who are >100 years old who have mild chf.
what are some consequences of heart disease?
heart disease comes in many shapes and form there are many conditions that affect the heart and can have different consequences. for example heart attacks due to blocked heart arteries can cause death irreversible damage to the heart muscle causing congestive heart failure poor heart pumping function which in turns leads to fatigue shortness of breath leg swelling and reduced life span.
which symptoms occur with arteriosclerosis?
hardening of the arteries. when in the heart it can cause chest pain heat attack congestive heart failure arrhythmias and death. when in the brain it can cause stroke passing out multi infarct dementia. when i the kidnesy arteries it can cuase difficult hypertension and kidney failure. when in the legs it can cause weakness claudication ulcers and delayed wound healing and or gangrene.
why do people need coronary arteries?
the heart is a pump made out of a holow muscle with four chambers valves and an electrical conduction system. the coronaries arteries provides nutrients and oxygen to the heart muscle for it to keep pump. when those arteries are blocked the heart muscle can die in a process called "heart attack" causing the patient to die or causing permanent muscle damage and heart failure.
will the doctor put me to sleep if i need a chest tube inserted?
a chest tube is typically placed with copious amounts of local anesthetic injected on the skin and tissues. you might be given some sedation. general anesthesia could be more dangerous in this instance due to the condition necessitating the chest tube like tension pneumothorax pleural effusion heart failure or severe pneumonia with empyema etc.
will sodium bicarb cause hypotension?
any liquid with salt (sodium) will likely maintain or increase blood pressure. the only time that sodium bicarb would cause problems and lower blood pressure is in someone who has a weak heart and has already congestive heart failure which would be worsened and thus drop blood pressure.
where does coronary arteries come from?
the coronaries arteries branch off the aorta and run on top of the heart muscle they provide blood nutrients and oxygen to the heart muscle for it to keep pumping. when those arteries are blocked the heart muscle can die in a process called heart attack causing the patient to die or causing permanent muscle damage and heart failure.
what is some information about dobutamine bedford 338 mg?
dobutamine is a medicine used by physicians to increase blood pressure usually in a heart that does not pump well. it may be used when a patient is in heart failure or has had a heart attack and works by helping the heart to beat stronger and faster. it is given intravenously by an infusion and has a range of doses. sometimes it is used as a stress test in patients who cannot exercise.
what are some recommendations for food allowed on water restriction diets for chf patients?
salt restriction is more important than fluid restriction in most patients. fluid restriction might be appropriate in a patient with low sodium. salt restriction is important in all patients with congestive heart failure. a typical recommendation would be 2000 milligrams of sodium daily.
what happens during heart failure?
because the heart is weakened it cannot pump the blood forward normally. this produces symptoms such as fatigue. also the pressure rises within the heart resulting in a build up of fluid in the lungs and eventually involving the right side of the heart so that there is leg swelling. the body responds to the low output by releasing certain hormones which worsen the swelling. it is complex.
what happens during heart failure?
heart failure means the heart is not pumping adequate output to satisfy the bodies needs. usually this results in fluid retention fatigue edema and shortness of breath. there is a form called diastolic failure in which the heart pumps adequately but to do this requires high intracranial pressures and fluid retention.
what are some advantages of a heart transplant?
if a patient has irreversible damage to their heart to the point where it is not pumping blood well enough to sustain a reasonable quality of life (typically class iiib or iv heart failure) a heart transplant offers a new heart that can pump blood more efficiently. however it does come with its own medical issues that should be discussed at length with your doctor.
what is the pathophysiology of hypotension?
hypotension or low blood pressure can happen for a variety of reasons. acute illness (i. e. sepsis) adrenal gland insufficiency overmedication heart failure are just a few of the many reasons for low blood pressure. additional causes can be volume depletion (orthostasis) or a variety of neurocardiogenic causes such as pots or similar.
what is the significance of a sticky heart valve?
this depends on the degree of tightness (stenosis). in the us the aortic valve is the most common valve affected by this condition. if the valve is considered severely stenosed then over time it will lead to congestive heart failure and it has to be replaced.
which conditions render a person ineligible for enhanced external counter pulsation?
frequent arrhythmias active blood clot or poor circulation in the legs pregnancy large or symptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysm. the following need control prior to initiation: bp>180/120 hr >120 decompensated congrestive heart failure. age diabetes pacemakers/icds and obesity are not an issue.
what are treatments for heart failure?
then diuresis i. e. water pills by mouth or iv then some medicines may help like ace inhibitors or arbs or iv drips like dobutamine melrinone or nesiritide in severe cases. in severe selected cases heart transplant may be an option. note if no fluid overload happens using salt & fluid restriction the overwhelming majority of these patients will stay away from hospital and it's complications.
what are treatments for heart failure?
treatment depends on what the cause of the chf is. could be surgical could be medical. systolic chf is different from diastolic chf and valvar stenosis chf is different from valvar insufficiency chf. virtually all kinds have diuretic as part of the treatment.
what are the consequences of congestive heart failure?
fluid accumulation shortness of breath pulmonary edema arrythmia cardiomypathy sudden death.
what are the consequences of congestive heart failure?
treatment depends on what the cause of the chf is. could be surgical could be medical. systolic chf is different from diastolic chf and valvar stenosis chf is different from valvar insufficiency chf. virtually all kinds have diuretic as part of the treatment.
why is adrenaline not the medication for heart failure?
adrenaline is only used during cardiac arrest to "restart" the heart. it has a very short half-life and is metabolized very fast. one of the long-term complications of heart failure is caused by too much adrenaline production to try to stimulate the heart. beta-blocker medications block the long-term effects of adrenaline and reduce mortality from heart failure.
why is adrenaline not the medication for heart failure?
adrenalin increases heart pumping strength but also increases the frequency i. e. runs too fast. both of these issues increase demand for oxygen by a heart that is usually deprived of adequate oxygen due to coronary heart disease. this leads to arrhythmias and possible heart attack. in short like beating a tired horse.
what causes of congestive heart failure?
some examples are heart attack anemia valve diseae hypertension infections disease of the heart muscle (cardiomyopathy) overactive thyroid.
what causes of congestive heart failure?
chf is the final common pathway when virtually any heart disease becomes severe enough. common causes are: heart attacks diseased valves hypertension viral infection of the heart muscle congenital abnormalities advanced aging. there are many other causes.
what are the symptoms of aortic valve insufficiency?
if valve insufficiency is mild or moderate you may not have any symptoms. severe valve insufficiency causes significant back flow of the blood causing enlarged heart chamber and congestion of blood to structure before the valve (lung or liver) causing shortness of breath and heart failure symptoms.
what are the symptoms of aortic valve insufficiency?
there are 2 flavors of ai: acute and chronic. either may be mild moderate or severe. severe acute ai can cause acute congestive heart failure and is a medical emergency. mild to moderate chronic ai may never cause symptoms and doesn't require treatment. severe chronic ai can after many decades eventually lead to breathlessness heart pounding chest pain fatigue and frank chf eventually.
what is the progress or timeline for a heart failure?
the majority is related to coronary disease (angina or heart attack) the degree of coronary disease determine progress of failure of the heart. but salt and fluid restriction goes long ways in keeping heart failure compensated (controlled) and that has a good effect on progress of disease.
what is the progress or timeline for a heart failure?
heart failure is a syndrome with many causes and resulting time courses. heart failure can occur suddenly and lead to death in a matter of hours to days. on the other hand it may take years before a terminal event occurs. patients with symptomatic heart failure have a 50% five year survival rate.
what are treatments for congestive heart failure?
the categories of medicines used are called ace inhibitors arb's beta blockers diuretics and digoxin. other things can be done such as salt and/or fluid restriction. control of the underlying cause of the heart failure also needs to be considered. that might require repairing a valve removing a blockage in an artery or treating high blood pressure.
what are treatments for congestive heart failure?
1 improve heart function with medications such as beta blockers acei/ arb aldactone (spironolactone) good blood pressure and diabetes control correct valve problems blockages&arrhythmia 2. remove excess fluid or prevent accumulation by salt restriction and diuretics 3. improve the efficiency of the skeletal muscles as by exercise program 4. improve the capacity of blood to carry oxygen by treating anemia.
what are treatments for congestive heart failure?
medications: ace-i beta blocker and diuretic classes of medications are the main stay. other treatments could include lvad icd biv pacing and even cardiac transplant all depending on the severity of problems. this is a complex problem and needs to be discussed with your physician.
when do people not die from heart failure?
most patients with heart failure can live a long life nowadays. it depends on how severe it is. factors that determine how long you live are:1. how severe it is 2. what is the underlying cause 3. how good is your treatment 4. how compliant you are with the treatment 5. what other illnesses you have 6. how old you are so find a good doctor and do what he advises and you should be around a while.
when do people not die from heart failure?
i'm sorry - i'm not sure what you're asking? do yo mean what can people with heart failure do to live longer?
what is used to treat congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure is treated by altering the environment in which the heart works and altering the function of the heart itself. changing the environment can include lowering blood pressure removing fluid from the body or fixing a hyperactive thyroid. fixing the heart itself can include controlling an arrhythmia fixing a valve or opening up a coronary artery.
what is used to treat congestive heart failure?
treatment depends on what the cause of the chf is. could be surgical could be medical. systolic chf is different from diastolic chf and valvar stenosis chf is different from valvar insufficiency chf. virtually all kinds have diuretic as part of the treatment.
what is the significance of hypertension?
hypertension is major risk factor for stroke. it can also lead to kidney failure and congestive heart failure. even severe hypertension may not cause any symptoms for years. treatment is very effective but the challenge is to convince patients to take their medicines consistently to maintain good control and to visit their physicians to ensure that blood pressure remains at optimum levels.
what are the consequences of heart failure?
the most common consequences of congestive heart failure or shortness of breath lethargy inability to exercise and a shortened lifespan.
what are the consequences of heart failure?
heart failure usually develops as a complication of various conditions. other treatments for the underlying condition may be advised in certain cases. for example: treatment to lower blood pressure treatments to slow down the progression of chd - for example lowering a high cholesterol level. surgery to replace or fix a heart valve may be done if a damaged heart valve is the cause of the heart
what are the consequences of heart failure?
treatment depends on what the cause of the chf is. could be surgical could be medical. systolic chf is different from diastolic chf and valvar stenosis chf is different from valvar insufficiency chf. virtually all kinds have diuretic as part of the treatment.
why would someone receive a heart transplant?
they are in heart failure and would not survive without a new one.
what occurs during mitral stenosis?
mitral stenosis is when the mitral valve fails to open sufficiently. this restricts the blood flow into the left ventricle (the main pumping chamber). this causes the left atrium to dilate and increase pressure in the lungs. this causes shortness of breath increase bp in lungs abnormal heart rhythms and heart failure.
what are classifications of congestive heart failure?
the form of heart failure can be divided into systolic (reduced "squeeze") and diastolic (impaired relaxation between beats. there is a classification of severity from the nyha: class i - no effect on activity class ii - comfortable at rest slight effect on activity class iii - marked limitations of activity class iv - symptoms at rest unable to carry out any physical activity w/o discomfort.
what are classifications of congestive heart failure?
systolic heart failure implies that the strength of the heart is reduced. diastolic heart failure implies that the strength of the heart is normal.
what are the consequences of coronary heart disease?
blocked coronary arteries affect the blood flow to the heart. this causes chest discomfort when inadequate circulation is present. when blocked arteries close completely this causes heart attack and heart damage which can lead to heart failure or death.
what are the consequences of coronary heart disease?
coronary heart disease can result in chest tightness or pain on exertion (called "angina") exertional shortness of breath ("dyspnea") heart attack (coronary occlusion) heart failure cardiac rhythm irregularities ("arrhythmias") cardiac arrest ("sudden death") and a shortened life expectancy.
what is the result of damage to the chordae tendinae in the left ventricle?
the chordae are support structures for the mitral and tricuspid valves. when they are damaged valvar insufficiency results. this can be severe enough to cause congestive heart failure either acute or chronic.
what is the result of damage to the chordae tendinae in the left ventricle?
usually this leads to a leaking valve and if untreated eventually congestive heart failure. the duration which a person can tolerate a damaged chordae is dependent on the person's health otherwise the cause of the damage the amount of the resultant leakage and the size and function of the left ventricle prior to the damage.
what is the etiology of chest pain?
common cardiac causes include ischemia (blockage of a coronary artery causing starvation of a piece of the heart) vasospasm of the coronary arteries (quivering) pericarditis (inflammation of the outer sac of the heart) heart failure (decreased pump efficiency). pulmonary causes include pneumonia or bronchitis embolism (clot usu. blood) asthma or copd fluid build-up and others.
what are some of the causes of the heart failure?
most common: coronary artery disease. others: viral illness drugs/ toxins infiltrative disorders hyper and hypothyroid tachycardia and many more.
what are some of the causes of the heart failure?
one of those list answers - here r a few - only 400 characters - cardiac ischemia (not getting enought blood to the heart) myocardial infarction (dead heart tissue can't pump right) arrythmia (heart can't beat in sync) virus / alcohol - weakens and stretches the heart - autoimmunie disease - heart under attack - can't pump any of the above that r under control but knocked out of control (salt/water).
what does aortic valve stenosis lead to?
aortic stenosis refers to the gradual destruction of the aortic valve. it is a progressive process that eventually leads to shortness of breath and lack of energy with exercise. untreated it will eventually cause congestive heart failure.
what are some congestive heart failure symptoms?
1. shortness of breath with activity 2. lower extremity edema / fluid retention 3. weight gain secondary to #2 4. sleeping on several pillows or upright due to shortness of breath laying flat 5. waking up in the middle of the night due to shortness of breath. 6. fatigue with exertional activity.
what are some congestive heart failure symptoms?
heart failure often leads to excessive fluid in the system causing shortness of breath swelling or increased abdominal girth. also patients may feel more short of breath lying down or wake up at night gasping for breath. people may also feel fatigued washed out lightheaded or without appetite.
what specialist other than a cardiologist would you see for chf?
there are cardiologists that specialize in advanced heart failure and transplantation - usually affiliated with tertiary medical centers.
what is the significance of nonfunctional or defective chordae tendinae?
the chordae are support structures for the mitral and tricuspid valves. when they are damaged valvar insufficiency results. this can be severe enough to cause congestive heart failure either acute or chronic.
what factors contribute to chf?
heart function kidney function and dietary salt intake can all contribute to congestive heart failure.
what are disadvantages of a heart transplant?
you will need major surgery and then be treated with immunosuppressive drugs for the rest of your life. while these drugs can prevent rejection of the heart they make the recipient more vulnerable to infections and some cancers. however if one is in end stage heart failure there are few alternatives. even so there are not enough donor hearts available for all that need one.
what is the difference between systolic and diastolic heart failure and congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure is a general term referring to when the heart is no longer available to pump blood effectively enough to support the needs of the body. systolic failure is the more common situation where the heart pumps weakly while diastolic failure refers to inability of the heart to relax and expand normally as in the case of severe hypertrophy or muscular overgrowth.
what is the difference between systolic and diastolic heart failure and congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure is the congestion that ensues when the heart can not keep up with the demands of the tissues and fails to deliver adequate blood and nurtrients. this can be a result of a weakness in the contraction (systolic) or a stiffness in filling (disatolic) both can lead to congestion and heart failure.
why is heart transplant difficult?
heart failure patients are waiting many months for a matching donor heart after being listed as a suitable candidate.
when do you close a patent foramen ovale?
patients need to have experienced recurrent neurologic events despite warfarin anticoagulation or have a significant shunt causing heart failure symptoms.
what does it mean to have a very narrow atrial valve? is this dangerous?
i think you mean aortic valve the valve coming off the main artery carrying blood to the body. if the valve is severely blocked it can cause passing out chest pain heart failure of even sudden death. if the blockage is not severe the problem can be well tolerated.
what does it mean if the doctor says that only 5% of my heart is working?
the percentage usually refers to the amount of blood ejected by the ventricle or pumping chamber of the heart with each beat. the normal amount is 50+%. 5% is quite low and would be consistent with congestive heart failure.
what is fluid around the heart? what can a valve complication be? is the fluid and valve problem life-threatening? my dad has fluid around his heart and there's a problem in one of his valves (not working properly). he won't tell the family exactly what t
valve problems often cause congestive heart failure and fluid collectin in and around lungs. an echocardiogram will ususlly provide the answer. fluid around the heart heart can produce excessive pressure on the heart and can have serious consequences. again an echocardiogram will diagnose the problem.
what is fluid around the heart? what can a valve complication be? is the fluid and valve problem life-threatening? my dad has fluid around his heart and there's a problem in one of his valves (not working properly). he won't tell the family exactly what t
valve problems often cause congestive heart failure and fluid collection in and around lungs. an echocardiogram will usuaslly provide the answer. fluid around the heart heart can produce excessive pressure on the heart and can have serious consequences. again an echocardiogram will diagnose the problem.
what would keep a pulse ox low on a hospital patient with emphysema who is on all the necessary meds.?
sometimes despite all the right treatments the lungs of a patient with emphysema just can't deliver the necessary oxygen and needs help with extra oxygen. also if a patient with emphysema gets pneumonia or heart failure or fluid in the lungs this will also cause the oxygen to go low. further it is quite common for oxygen levels to go down when pts with emphysema sleep.
what can i do to relieve swollen legs it's due to my heart condition and is a little uncomfortable at times?
you have to determine if your swollen legs are due to blood clot congestive heart failure chf or venous insufficiency. the treatment is very different for each of these conditions.
why does angina cause pain and breathlessness?
lack of oxygen causes pain in any muscle when oxygen demand out strips suply. in the legs its called cludication. as for the shortness of breath it can be due to the dysfunction of the left ventricle due to poor oxygen suply. much like an engine sputters if the fuel line is clogged. along with heart failure pain and anxiety can also cause shortness of breath.
what are some preventive health screening needed for a female 48 years old. i currently have high blood pressure diabetes anemia low hemoglobin heart mumor arthritis diagnosed a high risk of congestive heart failure high cholesterol morbid obessed
apart for the blood pressure diabetes control anemia and so forth you need to make sure that straight forward things like a pap smear and breast examination are also taken care of.
what are some preventive health screening needed for a female 48 years old. i currently have high blood pressure diabetes anemia low hemoglobin heart mumor arthritis diagnosed a high risk of congestive heart failure high cholesterol morbid obessed
based on your post you are dealing with quite a few major medical problems. my first piece of advice is to visit your primary care provider regularly for management of all your issues. also you need to adopt a healthy lifestyle to including diet and exercise. you may request to see a nutritionist for a detailed plan. also you need to inquire about a condtion called sleep apnea and possible sleep studies. as far a preventative health screening for your age you should have a yearly mammogram and pap smear. when you turn 50 you will need a colonoscopy and screening for osteoporosis. best of luck.
will patients with congestive heart failure die within 5 years?
with good healthcare and good lifestyle choices (limit salt weight loss no smoking etc) people can live long lives even with a history of chf. there are excellent medications to help the heart beat more efficiently decrease fluid and help people feel much better.
will patients with congestive heart failure die within 5 years?
modern treatment has changed the game completely but requires seeing a heart failure specialist. also strongly dependent of cause of heart failure e. g. coronary disease viral hypertensive drug induced valvular metabolic inflitrative etc. and whether there are reversible components. need to see a physician who manages heart failure; ask your doctor to whom he would send his mother.
what is the longest you know someone who has survived with congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure (chf) is in many ways a generic term - it is more of a symptom than a diagnosis. someone suffering with chf typically has shortness of breath fatigue and fluid build up in the lung tissue. the root cause of chf will determine the prognosis. some causes of chf include inherited muscle diseases (cardiomyopathy) coronary artery disease (heart attacks) kidney faliure etc.
what is the longest you know someone who has survived with congestive heart failure?
i personally have many patients who have survived for many years with congestive failure. however this disease is very serious and must be treated and monitored very frequently. diet fluid and weight management and proper lifestyle make a huge difference for patients with this diagnosis.
what is the longest you know someone who has survived with congestive heart failure?
modern treatment has changed the game completely but requires seeing a heart failure specialist. also strongly dependent of cause of heart failure e. g. coronary disease viral hypertensive drug induced valvular metabolic inflitrative etc. and whether there are reversible components. need to see a physician who manages heart failure; ask your doctor to whom he would send his mother.
what is the longest you know someone who has survived with congestive heart failure?
four classes of heart failure - class i or extremely mild heart failure has very limited symptoms and if properly treated could have normal life expectancy. someone in class iv failure has severe symptoms and could have as high as 50% ) months mortality rate.
what is the longest you know someone who has survived with congestive heart failure?
13 years! well treated and closely monitored heart failure patients can lead reasonably active and healthy lifestyles.
what symptoms would someone with very low ejection fracture number(12%) show? possible they can seem healthy & do normal activities until heart fails?
people with a 12% ejection fraction (ef) are considered to be in severe heart failure. the symptoms of heart failure are shortness of breath fatigue swelling of the lower extremities fluid build up in the abdomen (ascitis) chest discomfort occasionally cough weight gain due to fluid retention decreased urinary output intolerance of physical activity etc.
what symptoms would someone with very low ejection fracture number(12%) show? possible they can seem healthy & do normal activities until heart fails?
chf at that low level one can see shortness of breath weakness and swelling in the legs however if the heart failure is compensated and the blood pressure is regulated they may not have any symptoms they just need to be evaluated for an implantable defibrillator as the risk for sudden cardiac death is higher. this would only be done if the heart failure did not improve with meds.
why when i go to sleep i feel like i go into a deep sleep and wake up gasping for air feels like im gonna die?
the other entity to rule out is early congestive heart failure ("paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea"). blood backed up in your lungs produces a vicious cycle by pressing on the pulmonary veins as you sleep -- you break it only by sitting up. it feels horrible and many physicians don't know the real explanation. good luck.
what does hipotension may cause?
hypertension can lead to stroke and heart disease and heart failure.
what is the best blood pressure medication for african americans? im using diuretic but its still elevated
depends on what other items are on your menu. heart failure too? think about beta blockers or ace inhibitors. diabetes too? ace inhibitors/arbs. if you don't have heart failure or diabetes then certain blood pressure rx that may work better: diuretics [you're taking that already] long-acting dhp calcium channel blocker [like amlodipine] or ace inhibitor/arbs. lots of choices on your menu!
what are sign & symptoms of pulmonary edema? and what is the treatment?
pulmonary edema usually manifestation exacerbation of congestive heart failure. symptoms: shortness of breath tachycardia hypoxemia edema of feet.
what is spironolact?
a diuretic meaning a drug which increases urine production and eliminates excess water. it is an important medication in the treatment of heart failure. the medication can increase your blood potassium levels which has to be monitored closely. also your doctor may decrease or stop the potassium pills when starting spironolactone.
what is spironolact?
spironolactone (aldactone (spironolactone)) is a diuretic that has a variety of uses. heart failure cirrhosis and ven some hormonal problems are sometimes treated with aldactone (spironolactone).
what does it mean to have a blood pressure of 150/100? how serious is it?
there is a linear relationship of the risk of stroke heart failure and kidney failure with blood pressure elevation over 140/90. yes you need evaluation and treatment.
what does it mean when your hands and feet are always cold?
the body maintains temperature by limiting blood flow to skin of the extremities to avoid heat loss. when this reflex is exaggerated cold hands and cold feet may occur in otherwise healthy person. medication such as beta blockers can also cause cold hands and cold feet. poor circulation as can occur with congestive heart failure can also cause cold hands and cold feet.
what could cause calcium deposits around an unborn child's heart?
endocardial fibroelastosis is a hallmark of heart failure in utero and can be associated with calcium deposition on strained cardiac muscle - it is a very serioud finding that merits pediatric cardiology evaluation and frequently leads to poor outcomes. eif on the other hand is a nothing-oma frequently seen on prenatal sonograms that scares couples without any reason.
which are the risks in a fallot correction surgery?
potential early risks: arrhythmia residula shunt across vsd residual narrowing at the pulmonary valve or below it bleeding and infection. late risks involved arrhythmia right ventricular conduction and dilatation causing right heart failure.
what causes swollen feet?
there are many causes for swollen feet/edema which range from congestive heart failure blood clots (dvt) infection tight shoes trauma and other reasons. it is impossible to find the cause without a good history and physical. see your physician.
what is lisinapril for?
is generally used for high blood pressure but can also be used for conditions such as congestive heart failure for use after a heart attack or to prevent kidney problems in patients with diabetes.
what would make legs and feet swell even when you are taking a diuretic?
not enough diuretics suboptimally treated congestive heart failure too much salt incompetent veins low protein levels poor lymphatic drainage are among them.
what kind of condition is dropsy?
this is very old term for what we now call heart failure which is manifest as swelling.
what sort of disorder is ebstein anomaly?
ebstein's anomaly is a rare heart defect that's present at birth (congenital). the tricuspid valve — the valve between the right atrium and right ventricle — is malformed and doesn't work properly. blood leaks back through the valve making the heart work less efficiently. ebstein's may result in heart enlargement or heart failure. rhythm problems are common. it can be mild or severe.
what sort of disorder is ebstein anomaly?
ebstein's anomaly is a rare heart defect that's present at birth (congenital). in ebstein's anomaly your tricuspid valve — the valve between the chambers on the right side of your heart — doesn't work properly. blood leaks back through the valve making your heart work less efficiently. ebstein's anomaly may also lead to enlargement of the heart or heart failure. if you have no signs or symptoms.
what is the number of heart attacks (on average) a person can get before dying of one?
death from heart attacks are from two causes: sudden death from arrhythmia which can happen with one or many heart attacks or from heart failure due to accumulated death of heart muscle of a total of 40% of the muscle with one or more heart attacks.
what sort of problem is an atrio-ventricular septal defect?
vsd is the abnormal communication through the wall separating the lower chambers (ventricles) allowing the abnormal mixing of oxygenated and un-oxygenated blood. it may occur as a birth defect or result from a heart attack. it can result in heart failure but if it's very small no treatment may be necessary. it is correctable with surgery.
what sort of disease is congestive heart failure (c. h. f. )?
heart failure has many causes and the prognosis varies with the particular cause and severity. concurrent diseases may coexist with heart failure and add to the seriousness. fortunately significant advances have been made that mitigate the disease and allow patients to have much improved quality and quantity of life. but one needs consultation with a heart failure specialist to sort it out.
what sort of disease is congestive heart failure (c. h. f. )?
weak heart muscle from injury or scarring which makes the patient build up with salt water and gets worse unless treated.
what sort of disease is congenital heart disease?
babies can be born with a number of heart anomalies possibly as part of syndrome or prematurity. they can be holes in the heart abnormalities of the large vesels coming off heart failure of part of the heart to develop coronary artery problems and more. a pediatric cardiologist and cardiothoracic surgeon will evaluate specifics. anesthesia for these procedures is very specialized.
what sort of blood pressure problem requires the use of an ace inhibitor?
ace inhibitors are a cornerstone of almost any hypertensive patient especially if a patient has diabetes or heart failure. monitoring of kidney tests and potassium and watching for cough or rarely rashes or swelling of the lips and eyelids are adverse effects that need medical attention.
what sort of blood pressure problem requires the use of an ace inhibitor?
this class of medications is used for hypertension as well as for heart failure.
what sort of disease is constrictive pericarditis?
scar formation in the sac enclosing the heart leads to constriction of the heart and interfere with the pumping function. it causes back-up of blood in the liver and may present as heart failure. it may result from healed infections e. g. tuberculosis or late effect of radiation to the chest.
what sort of disease is chronic high blood pressure?
chronic uncontrolled high blood pressure may produce no symptoms until a heart attack stroke heart failure dementia peripheral arterial disease or kidney failure appear. lifestyle and pharmacologic therapies are very effective in controlling the bp and the commensurate reduction in risk. see your doctor.
what are some preventative test you can take to prevent congestive heart failure? what are the signs? what is congestive heart failure and how is it caused and what is the result of the body after congestive heart failure?
that is a semester's worth of questions. the american heart association is a good place to start : <link>
what are some preventative test you can take to prevent congestive heart failure? what are the signs? what is congestive heart failure and how is it caused and what is the result of the body after congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure (chf) is a condition in which the heart is unable to move blood efficiently and fluid builds up in the lungs and the tissues of the body (especially the legs). it is the common end result of a variety of problems including direct injury to the heart kidney failure and lung disease among others. the best way to prevent chf is to eat a healthy diet avoid tobacco exercise regularly and keep your cholesterol and blood pressure under control. if you already have problems with your heart kidneys etc then it's important that you take whatever medications your doctor has prescribed and try to control the other items mentioned as much as possible.
what would cause water retention in both legs? all blood work have been done its all good. did a urinalisis good. has high blood pr. & diabetes.
congestive heart failure needs to be ruled out. kidney failure is also possible with long standing diabetes. blood clots in the legs excessive salt intake poor blood pressure control low albumin levels need to be considered.
what kind of pills or treatment can somebody get for congestive heart failure?
the cornerstone of therapy is a diuretic ("fluid pill"). drugs that dilate the blood vessels (vasodilators ace inhibitors) and drugs that reduce the work load of the heart (beta blockers) should always be included unless there is a specific contraindication. a drug that blocks the hormone aldosterone (spironolactone or inspra) should also be used if possible. the underlying cause should be sought.
what kind of pills or treatment can somebody get for congestive heart failure?
if heartfailure is right sided or from a stiff heart rather than a weak heart then the treatment will be quite diffrent and could actually harm a pt. more info is needed.
what kind of pills or treatment can somebody get for congestive heart failure?
there are multiple kinds of heart failure. systolic which is due to a weak heart. diastolic which is more related to excess fluid and stiff heart walls or kidney failure. another way to break down is left sided which causes fluid in lungs vs right sided which engorges veins but not lungs. common meds used are diuretics ace inhibitors inotropes-drugs that help pump etc. and even dialysis.
will pheochromocytoma kill me?
these are killers if neglected. you'll either have a hemorrhagic stroke or become demented from the wild changes in blood pressure or have your heart muscle fail from the excess catecholamines or get heart failure from hypertension. none of these are pleasant. if you are offered surgery take it.
what's the best treatment to get rid of difficulty breathing?
that depends entirely on the cause of the breathlessness. common causes include lack of fitness obesity asthma emphysema pneumonia congestive heart failure blood clots anemia thyroid disease acidosis from any cause hyperventilation broken rib tumors and on and on. this is the short list.
what causes heart conjested failer?
congestive heart failure or chf is a decreased ability of the heart to pump properly. symptoms can include shortness of breath decreased stamina or leg swelling. chf is typically due to an underlying condition such as lung disease or a previous heart attack.
what causes heart conjested failer?
it is known in english as congested heart failure and the most common cause is injury do to a heart attack. different viruses lung disease and other conditions may also cause it.
what are some reason id be nauseated dizzy tired and sjort of breath?
it would have been helpful if you'd provided more info including your age medical history and medications you may be taking. however what you are describing could be due to cardiac causes including atrial fibrillation heart failure angina or even heart attack. it could also be due to infectious causes like pneumonia. medication side effects or allergies are also possible. go see your doctor!
what are some reason id be nauseated dizzy tired and sjort of breath?
these can be serious symptoms of heart disease (such as coronary disease heart attack or heart failure). i would recommend you see your medical provider as soon as possible.
what are the most common symptoms of coarctation of the aorta?
the exact location and severity of the obstruction and age of presentation will dictate the symptoms. disparity in blood pressures between extremeties may be noted but associated conditions like intracardiac shunts may present with cyanosis. shortness of breath and heart failure may be presenting symptoms but infants can't relay those symptoms. physical exam and echocardiography are key.
which treatment works the best and fastest for aortic regurgitation?
aortic regurgitation or a leaky aortic valve can be well tolerated but when severe will lead to heart failure. when significant and especially when the heart function is decompensating aortic insufficiency is treated with aortic valve replacement or repair.
what is the best treatment for foot swelling?
it really depends on the cause. if its both feet and legs it may be due to congestive heart failure low protein in the blood or chronic venous changes. you need a full evaluation by a doctor. the treatment depends on the cause. sometimes elevation helps other times medications are needed. usually cutting back on salt intake is helpful also.
what symptoms does someone with congenital heart disease always have?
this very much depends upon what type of congenital heart disease a patient has and how it behaves it that particular individual. the same form of congenital heart disease such can produce minimal or no symptoms in one patient and can produce symptoms of heart failure in another.
what are the most effective home remedies for congestive heart failure?
patient with congestive heart failure can do certain thing to avoid worsening of symptoms by reducing the salt intake watching their weight and monitoring the blood pressure. they should also contain their fluid intake and most important take their medications regularly.
what are the most effective home remedies for congestive heart failure?
chf is a disease of salt and water overload. hence the use of diuretics to remove the excess salt and water. although you need to use your diuretic it will not be effective if you load yourself with salt and water.
what are the key symptoms of congestive heart failure?
leg swelling and shortness of breath with minor activity or when lying flat are signs of chf. however you need to know that other illnesses could present the same way making it hard for the lay person to differentiate. the solid diagnosis is done by ultrasound of the heart called echo which shows weak heart contractions. if you have these symptoms consult with your doc.
what are the key symptoms of congestive heart failure?
common symptoms include: shortness of breath when laying flat shortness of breath that wakes you up from sleeping shortness of breath during activity foot and ankle swelling. if you have any of these symptoms or other concerns please see a physician.
why don't men want to go to doctors? my husband has congestive heart failure and i feel i have to drag him in to be seen. what will happen to him without treatment?
without treatment of significant congestive heart failure you can expect worsening disability and hastening death. as to your question as to why men don't want to go to the doctor it is usually fear of having to deal with the unknown. reassure him tell him that you are with him all the way and perhaps he will listen.
why don't men want to go to doctors? my husband has congestive heart failure and i feel i have to drag him in to be seen. what will happen to him without treatment?
men tend to avoid drs out of fear loss of controll distrust etc. sadly most guys will treat their automobiles to better care and maintainence than their bodies. if his heart failure goes untreated he will have progressive and worsening symptoms. without the ace inhibitors and beta blockers he will have have a higher mortality rate. more frequent hospital admissions and poorer quality of life.
what leads to constrictive pericarditis?
this is a stiffening of the normally pliable sac that holds the heart. infections in the fluid around the heart and scarring conditions that have no known cause can cause this sac to stiffen and this results in incomplete filling of the heart between beats. this lack of filling can lead to heart failure as the heart is incapable of pumping blood as efficiently. it is a rare condition.
what are the consequences of coarctation of the aorta in a child?
untreated coarctation causes severe hypertension. left untreated severe hypertension can lead to stroke aortic aneurysm aortic dissection and congestive heart failure. luckily in the modern era coarctation is manageable.
what are the symptoms of myocarditis i should be looking for?
when severe myocarditis leads to hear failure. symptoms may consist of shortness of breath at rest with activities or the inability to lay flat (depending on the severity). you may also feel that your heart beats are fast or irregular. often the symptoms resolve with treatment but patients can develop long-term heart failure that may require heart transplant.
what is a recommended dieuratic?
diuretics are used to treat a variety of conditions from heart failure to kidney disease to electrolyte imbalances to hormonal problems and a host of others. the choice of diuretic depends on the disease being treated and the patient's needs and sensitivities. some common diuretics include furosemide and spironolactone. see your doc for more specific info.
what does it mean if somebody has cmi? what's the difference between chronic mesenteric or myocardial ischemia?
mesenteric ischemia refers to poor blood flow to the intestines causing abdominal pain diarrhea blood in the stool and weight loss. myocardial ischemia refers to poor blood flow to the heart muscle resulting in chest pain heart attack arrhythmias and heart failure. both conditions are related to atherosclerosis and one condition can predispose to the other.
what causes a blood clot in heart. how long will it take for heparin to break up the blood clot?
acute heart attack and surface clot quite quickly! atrial fibrillation/ mitral vale may develop more slowly. heart failure and enlarged chambers. heparin reduces progression but natural clot lysis occurs over time naturally or with lyric agents.
what is the longest someone not treated lived with congestive heart failure?
you would need to know all of the people that have ever had heart failure and follow them until their death. as you can see this would be an impossible undertaking.
what is the longest someone not treated lived with congestive heart failure?
in the old days the oft quoted survival statistic for chf (since there was no treatment) was a 2 year 50% survival. obviously that takes all comers - some forms are very mild and this wouldn't apply. moreover modern treatment has completely changed all that.
what causes swollen feet and ankles after binge at bar?
binge denotes lots of fluid intake. if you have congestive heart failure this will happen. note dangling feet in the bar for hours will make the swelling more apparent since water runs downhill. history of alcohol intake could be associated with heart failure called alcoholic cardiomyopathy. other causes like liver disease for the same exact reasons are possible. kidneys also need checked.
whats going on? in hospital for pneumonia and was diagnosed with chf also have copd?
chf congestive heart failure occurs when the heart is unable to effectively pump blood out of the heart to the rest of the body. as a result fluid backs up into the lungs resulting in the "congestion. " chf is due to something else like disease in the heart itself but lung disease like copd can also result in heart failure especially when the pulmonary pressures elevate. there are treatments.
what happens to the heart if you have high blood pressure?
high blood pressure over time results in response called hyper trophy. this affects the main pumping chamber the left ventricle. the chronic pressure overload can also cause the left upper chamber to dilate which can lead to arrhythmia such as atrial fibrillation. the end stage result can be heart failure.
what is the life duration of someone with heart failure?
it is too variable to predict; it could be days or years.
what is an s3 heart murmur? how serious is it? 38 year old woman asymptomatic. had a baby one year ago
s3 is the description used for a 3rd heart sound after the typical "lub dub" you hear when listening to the heart. young people athletes and pregnant women often have an s3 on exam and it is considered completely normal. it can also be an indicator of congestive heart failure but patients often have other symptoms such as shortness of breath with exercise or lying down fatigue swelling of extremeties weight gain and fluid retention and coughing up pink phlegm. since she is 38 asymptomatic and recently had a child it is likely benign. if she starts to notice any of the symptoms above she should call her doctor right away.
what happens to the pulse pressure when someone has atherosclerosis?
the pulse pressure is the systolic pressure minus the diastolic pressure. it often rises with aging. the problem is usually high systolic pressure which reflects decreased compliance and stiffening of the blood vessels (hardening of the arteries). this represents a risk for stroke heart attack and congestive heart failure. the risk can be decreased by lowering the blood pressure carefully.
what are some causes of swelling of the legs?
varicose veins with chronic venous insufficiency superficial thrombophlebitis deep venous thrombosis lymphedema knee hip and/or ankle arthritis that prevents normal ambulation obesity prolonged standing liver or kidney trouble hypothyroidism abnormal protein levels all kinds of heart conditions that cause heart failure the list is long and this doesn't cover everything by any means.
what are some causes of swelling of the legs?
one of the most common cause of leg swelling is lymphedema. this is caused by poor lymphatic circulation. venous insufficiency primarily from superficial or deep vein failure can also cause leg swelling. some medications can cause swelling. other less likely cause are heart failure cirrhosis of the liver and kidney problems. i recommend you get checked out by a doctor if you have leg swelling.
what problem could cause lower chest pain on the right side?
some of them could be a lung infection (pneumonia) bronchitis pulmonary embolus chest trauma muscle spasm shingles pleurodynia (viral infection of the pleura) rib fracture muscle tear gallstones hepatitis heart failure asthma attack emphysema thoracic spine disease with nerve root compression.
what's the difference between left and right heart failure?
in left heart failure there is congestion in the lungs. in right heart failure there is congestion everywhere except the lungs ie ankles legs genitals abdomen internal organs etc. the two usually go hand in hand although occasionally one encounters pure examples of just one.
what's the difference between left and right heart failure?
left heart (lv) failure what commonly "heart failure" refers to involves processes that lead to inadequacy of lv to pump blood this sometimes leads to lung congestion. right heart failure commonly but not always a result of untreated or under-treated left heart failure occurs when the right side of the heart is not pumping. leading to accumulation of fluid everywhere including the chest.
what are the symptoms of pulmonary hypertension in an ex-preemie preschooler?
pulm hypertension is high blood pressure in the lungs typically causes straining/higher workload for the right side of heart. mild pulm hypertension may not have symptoms at all as in regular hypertension. if chronic and severe straining on heart causes thinkening and possible right heart failure causing breathlessness leg swelling etc. make sure baby has regular follow-up. good luck.
which medications helped you with congestive heart failure?
"water pills" (diuretics) help eliminate extra fluid through the kidneys. digoxin has been used for many decades to "help the squeeze" of the heart (although its usefulness is in question nowadays). so called-after-load reducers help relax the tension on the walls of vessels and make it easier to help the heart empty. finally beta-blockers can be helpful as well. consult your doctor.
which medications helped you with congestive heart failure?
much depends on the underlying cause of heart failure. diuretics are the mainstay but ace inhibitors or arbs plus beta-blockers are core drugs. aldosterone antagonists like spironolactone in severe heart failure are very beneficial. in select cases digitalis preparations and antiarrhythmic agents may be helpful. it's too soon to know if stem-cell therapy will be useful but we are hopeful.
what can cause selling in your lower leg. there is no discoloration but some minor pain. there are no cuts or bruises. the swelling is not severe?
swelling of both legs equally usually represents fluid overload-do you ahve a history of heart failure kidney disease or high blood pressure. if so your doctor may rx a "fluid pill". avoid excess salt in the diet. alternatively if only one leg is swollen that could mean a blood clot- fortunately uncommon but if missed it can cause serious harm.
what causes swollen feet and ankles. they are so puffy i can indent them?
vein obstruction (gravid uterus e. g. ) kidney disease and liver failure causing low albumin leads to edema and heart failure with high venous pressure can all lead to edema. you should see your doctor for an evaluation and explanation.
what are symptoms of heart failure in women?
the most common symptoms are fatigue decreased exercise tolerance shortness of breath with exertion shortness of breath at night need to use more pillows to sleep swelling in the abdomen or legs weight gain due to fluid buildup. if you experience any of these symptoms see a cardiologist right away.
what are symptoms of heart failure in women?
below are the more common symptoms but usually starts with breathlessness on exertion and decreased exercise tolerance; feeling breathless on exertion and when lying flat. waking up in the night breathless. ankle swelling. cough. fatigue. decreased exercise tolerance. confusion in elderly. nausea or abdominal pain.
weak heart but otherwise healthy. why do i get swelling in my legs and bottom? 66
if you know that you have a "weak heart" i presume you mean that you have been diagnosed with congestive heart failure. swelling is one of the most common symptoms of this condition. it can usually be adequately treated by finding the proper dose of a potent diuretic like furosemide (lasix). consult your doctor. it would not be a good or safe idea to manage diuretics on your own.
why woukld a doctor choose one diuretic over another with a patient with kid ney problems? and what is the preferable one?
diuretics have different purposes. some are given to mobilize sodium and water to remove excess fluid from the body to reduce swellin or edema or treat congestive heart failure. some are given to treat high blood pressure and some are potassium sparing. depending on why it is being used the doctor may make a specific choice.
what medical problems could a person have if blood pressure does not respond to drugs?
poorly controlled blood pressure can result in heart failure stroke myocardial infarction (heart attack) heart valve disease kidney failure blindness and early death. there are specific blood tests that can determine if one type of blood pressure medication would be better than another.
what causes pedal edema -- high blood pressure.?
blood pressure problems congestive heart failure kidney problems. have it checked out.
what can cause dyspnea and hypotension in a patient?
things such as congestive heart failure a heart attack or pulmonary embolism can cause these symptoms. also pneumonia or any serious infection can cause these symptoms.
what is the relation of hypertension and decreased cardiac output?
it is an indirect relationship. hypertension over time can lead to changes in the heart muscle and heart function. it may eventually lead to heart failure. when this ensues the output of the heart can eventually decline and cause serious symptoms. in the earlier stages if hypertension cardiac output actually goes up.
why would this inflammation of the heart's lining cause death?
either due to an accumulation of inflammatory fluid or blood into the pericardial space causing cardiac tamponade and fatal heart failure or through an tachyarrhythmia (which can also be provoked by cardiac tamponade) that leads to heart failure and sudden cardiac death.
what do hypertension and congestive heart failure have to do with each other?
hypertension is a leading cause of chf but not the opposite. people with chf may have high blood pressure normal blood pressure or low bp. the waters are muddied by the fact that nearly all meds used to treat chf incidentally lower bp as well.
why would a patient in renal failure get decreased cardiac output?
but the reverse is true. someone with low cardiac output underperfuses the kidneys and commonly gets "pre-renal azotemia" which is a form of poor kidney function. people with advanced renal failure are commonly volume overloaded which is often mistakenly called "heart failure" (really it's circulation failure). is that what you mean?
what is the treatment for carditis?
myocarditis is due to inflammation of the heart muscle-infective or noninfective. again it mostly symptomatic treatment like pain control aspirin and antiinflammatories. if patient develops arrhythmias and congestive heart failure it should be treated appropriately.
who do you see for orthopnea?
orthopnea is breathlessness that occurs specifically when lying down. the two conditions that should be considered are congestive heart failure and and advanced lung disease. you should be seen by a family practice doctor or internist or cardiologist or pulmonary specialist. (since you're using the medical term "orthopnea" i assume you've already seen one?
what are the risks associated with congestive heart failure during pregnancy?
pregnancy demands increased cardiac output and a failing heart may not be up to the task. labor and delivery are physically stressful. blood loss commonly results in anemia - both hard for a failing heart. the risk is that someone who is marginally compensated will become worse during gestation with progressive symptoms. if you're contemplating pregnancy discuss it in advance with ob and cards.
whats the treatment for right side heart failure?
in right sided heart failure the problem is abnormalities in the pulmonary or lung circulation. there is typically underlying lung diseases. treatment involves 1) treatment of the specific lung disease 2 ) supplemental oxygen if needed as this tends to dilate the blood vessels in the lungs 3) medicine that directly dilate the blood vessels in the lungs one such medicine is a form of "viagra".
what are the treatments for chronic heart failure?
this is complex. treatment includes medicine to remove fluids ( diuretics) salt restriction medicine to decrease the work the heart does these medications dilate the blood vessels especially a class of medicines called "ace" inhibitors and medicines to decrease stress hormones (beta blockers) other issues may need to be addressed as well such as arrhythmia & blockages in coronary arteries.
what sort of symptoms are in a child with patent ductus arteriosus?
children with patent ductus arteriosus (pda) may be entirely asymptomatic (often diagnosed by a typical heart murmur) or they may have signs and symptoms of congesitve heart failure secondary to a left-to-right shunt. these symptoms may include a fast heart rate fast abnormal breathing and failure to gain weight appropriately. the symptoms depend on the size of the pda and degree of shunting.
what you expect bp and hr of a person with congestive heart failure to be at rest and with exercise?
just having chf doesn't predict what bp and hr will be. they could be anything. but what one would expect is that the functional capacity (exercise tolerance) would be impaired (maximum oxygen consumption index would be reduced) hr would rise more quickly than in a healthy person and especially the hr recovery (time it takes for the hr to slow again after exercise) would be seriously impaired.
what is the relationship between congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease?
a heartattack or chronic poor blood flow to heart muscle can make it weak so that it doesn't pump well anymore leading to heart failure or chf.
what is the relationship between congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease?
congestive heart failure occurs whenever the heart can't manage its job well enough for any reason. coronary artery disease is just one of many many reasons that may occur. the commonest reason in the usa is probably hypertension. cardiomyopathies valvular disorders arrhythmias and senescence are other broad categories.
what medications can be used for both heart failure and hypertension?
many medications can be used for this depending on your overall history. some common ones include lasix (furosemide) aldactone/spironolactone ace inhibitors (e. g. lisinopril) arbs (e. g. losartan) and nitrates. this requires a discussion with your doctor who knows your history well.
what can the average person do to lessen thechance of heart failure?
do all you can to avoid heart disease. . limit risk factors of hypertension diabetes cigarette smoking elevated cholesterol/lipids avoid obesity exercise and eat healthy. these things you can control.
which nursing diagnoses are most appropriate for a person with wheezes dyspnea and tachypnea?
but age and past history play important roles here. most adults know if they have asthma children may present with their first attack. on a nursing exam i'd choose asthma. beware the "zebras" like congestive heart failure pulmonary embolus or copd etc.
what is basal septum hypokinesis of the heart and is it serious?
hypokinesis means abnormally low contraction and wall motion of the segment of the heart. the greater the number of left ventriculuar wall segments with hypokinesis the worse the overall heart function is and the greater the chance of developing heart failure and premature death.
what is the best treatment for pulmonary edema if the person has heart failure?
one of the treatments for pulmonary edema caused by heart failure is diuretic therapy to rid the body of the excess fluid. this therapy needs to be prescribed by a physician and monitored very carefully .
what is the best treatment for pulmonary edema if the person has heart failure?
diuretics help to clear the lungs of fluid. ace inhibitors angiotensin receptor blockers and beta blockers help to prevent recurrences of heart failure. certain types of pacemakers may also help.
what are the potential dangers of cardiac hypokinesis or hypokinesia?
hypokinesis means abnormally low contraction and wall motion of the segment of the heart. the greater the number of left ventriculuar wall segments with hypokinesis the worse the overall heart function is and the greater the chance of developing heart failure and premature death.
what the difference between a pulmonary edema and pulmonary embolism?
a pulmonary embolism is when a blood clot usually from the vein in the legs/ pelvis breaks off and lodges in the pulmonary arteries. this causes a strain on the right ventricle ( the part of the heart that pumps blood to the lung along with several other problems. pulmonary edema is fluid build up in the lungs usually from heart failure but there are other causes. symptoms can overlap.
would pulmonary edema be because an increase in salt?
in situations in which the pulmonary edema is related to heart failure excess salt can cause the persons heart failure to worsen and cause pulmonary edema. this is only the case in those with the underlying heart problem however.
what are the signs and symptoms of left sided heart failure with pulmonary congestion?
pulmonary congestion caused by fluid build-up in the lungs leading to shortness of breath is the main symptom of left-sided heart failure. this can progress to lower extremity swelling and abdominal bloating as the disease process worsens.
what is zestoretic (lisinopril and hydrocholorthiazide) used for?
combination drug consisting of zestril (lisinopril an ace inhibitor) & hydrochlorothiazide [hctz] a diuretic. it is used for treating hypertension & congestive heart failure that's not responding well to diuretics (or digoxin) alone. ace inhibitors also have a protective effect on the kidneys in diabetics.
why doesn't my lasix work? i take 60mg of lasix and i also take atenolol spironolactone and k-dur. i am always swollen in my legs ankles and top of feet. the water pills don't work every day like they should. i have hypertension hypertensive cardiovasc
diuretics like lasix (furosemide) may help decrease your leg swelling but better to look at the causes and treat them. venous disease (venous incompetence) cv disease especially congestive heart failure hypertension kidney failure poor nutrition inactivity and having legs in a dependent position for most of the day and obesity are all reasons to have swollen legs. suggestion: see a phlebologist who can evaluate you and advise best treatment.
what can be done for congestive heart failure?
today lots of thing can be done for the treatment of congestive heart failure starting from diuresis inotropic support control of blood pressure reducing pre-load and after load. finally you can augment the weak heart with a artificial heart or heart transplantation.
what can be done for congestive heart failure?
since the primary cause is atherosclerosis i. e. coronary artery disease (even if lumens look ok on angiography) driving? blood flow & heart muscle damage aggressively treat the factors driving atherosclerosis [lipoproteins (not cholesterol) blood sugar bp etc. to abnormally healthy levels] remove excess bodywater keep bp low nl treat with acei (aceon (perindopril) 1 of best) & carvedilol exercise etc.
what are the early warning signs of heart disease in women?
often women have the same symptoms as men however women can more frequently than men have atypical symptoms such as nausea shortness of breath or heart failure. this is because women develop heart disease at an older age and with other illnesses such as diabetes hypertension and kidney disease. in women ther may be no early warning symptoms of heart disease.
what is the heart doing when a person has high blood pressure?
but it's pumping against a higher total peripheral resistance which in time can cause a reduction in the strength of contraction (ejection fraction) and eventually leads to congestive heart failure (over many years).
what are some drugs which may be used in the management of the patient with heart failure?
heart failure medications include beta blockers diuretics ace inhibitors digoxin. these are used in various combinations to achieve better heart function and control of symptoms.
what are some drugs which may be used in the management of the patient with heart failure?
several different classes of drugs are used to treat hf. beta-blockers(carvedilol bisoprolol metoprolol succinate) ace inhibitors or arb's (angiotensin receptor blockers) aldosterone antagonists (spironolactone eplerenone) and diuretics as needed. digoxin can be added for heart rate control in those patients who have atrial fibrillation but is not a mainstay of therapy.
what are the symptoms associated with right-sided heart failure?
rt sided heart failure is due to long standing high blood pressure in pulmonary arteriesand right ventricle of the heart. symptoms are shortness of breath and lightheadedness during activities chest discomfort or pain swelling of feet and ankles. symptoms of underlying cause wheezing and cough and fainting spells with activities.
what kind of edema if client has heart failure?
depends on the severity of the heart failure. edema can involve the lower extremities and progress to involve the abdominal organs causing a sensation of abdominal bloating and fullness and can ultimately cause pulmonary edema resulting in shortness of breath of variable acuity depending on the degree of fluid accumulation.
what side effect of tablet furosemide?
furosemide is used to reduce salt/water in body and thus treat edema heart failure or high bp. chief side effects include low potassium levels gout (from high uric acid level) and dehydration/volume depletion.
what are the tests for bacterial endocarditis?
they include blood cultures complete blood count chemistry profile and most importantly an echocardiogram or cardiac ultrasound. a echocardiogram particularly a transesophageal echocardiogram can detect with a high degree of certainty infection of the heart valve known as valvuvlar vegetations and can also assess the heart for valve leakage and heart failure.
what are the symptoms of viral myocarditis?
depending on the severity of the illness you may not have any noticeable symptoms if very mild. some may have chest pain fever/sweat chills and shortness of breath. in severe cases in addition to above you may get palpitations passing out cardiogenic-shock (heart failure to pump) and death. if you have any concerns/symptoms above consult doc asap. good luck.
will a cardiac mri/mra show congested heart failure blocked arteries etc? what all will it show?
cardiac mri will show heart function valves and if they give contrast can show evidence of prior heart attacks. sometimes it can show blocked arteries but it's not the best study to look at these.
will a cardiac mri/mra show congested heart failure blocked arteries etc? what all will it show?
chestive heart failure best diagnosed with plain chest xray and physical examination. to see "blocked coronary arteries" need sither heart catheterization or ct angiography because of ability to see fine detail. speak with your cardiologist to determine which is best for you.
will a cardiac mri/mra show congested heart failure blocked arteries etc? what all will it show?
this study is used to look for specific problems. it can show the heart muscle heart arteries and adjacent great vessels it can give an indication of function and status of the muscle and valves. other tests are complementary and your doctor will generally choose what is best to gather the information needed for decision making.
will a cardiac mri/mra show congested heart failure blocked arteries etc? what all will it show?
yes it will show the blood vessels and show the blockage but if seen on mra the blckage you will still need angiography for angioplasty or stent placement. it is not a good test for congestive heart failure. you need echocardiogram for that.
what will a creatine kinase (ck) blood test show? will it show heart failure or such?
ck is elevated in cases of damage to muscles it included skeletal muscle heart muscle and smooth muscle. there are different types of ck and pathologists can distinguish which muscle group may be affected. ck is usually not affected in uncomplicated heart failure.
what will a creatine kinase (ck) blood test show? will it show heart failure or such?
the ck is an enzyme present in muscle but also the bones and the brain. there is a sub-type that we still use to some extent the ck-mb fraction to help diagnosis heart attacks. now a days we measure a different protein the troponin-i to more accurrately diagnosis acute heart attacks. the ck can be a marker of muscle damage from many causes and is influenced by many other disease states.
what are the health risks of lobster?
shellfish are high in sodium and can be adverse in individuals at reisk for heart failure.
what are the symptoms of atrial septal defect?
most people with asds do not have symptoms. most children are diagnosed when sent to a cardiologist for a murmur. however as people age they can develop right heart failure with swelling of their extremities liver enlargement and decreased ability to exercise. wit hthe most severe cases patients turn blue. some young patients get more frequent and/or more severe respiratory infections.
what's the difference between congestive heart failure and right heart failure?
congestive heart failure refers to the congestion (fluid buildup) which is seen in the lungs and the legs (swelling) and in the abdomen. (might be swollen). heart failure can involve both the right and left sides of the heart depending on the exact cause. the most common cause of right heart failure is left heart failure but certain things such as lung disease can cause just right heart failure.
what's the difference between congestive heart failure and right heart failure?
right heart failure is a type of congestive heart failure. congestive heart failure is characterized by fluid buildup. when the fluid builds up in the lungs causing shortness of breath that is left heart failure. when fluid builds up in the legs or abdomen that is right heart failure.
what are the best tests for congestive heart failure?
1. physical exam by a trained physician 2. echocardiogram 3. blood test called nt pro-bnp (done to assess elevated pressure in the ventricle only needed if exam and echocardiogram are not definitive).
what is the treatment for mitral valve disease?
mitral valve disease includes mitral valve leaking (mr) and blockage (mitral stenosis). each has a given criteria for surgery. usually most pts have mild to moderate disease. the pts are monitored for symptoms arrythmias heart failure decreased exercise tolerance etc. beta blockers water pills digoxin anticoagulation and antiarrthmic medicine are some time used. if severe only surgery helps.
what are the symptoms of chronic high blood pressure?
uncomplicated high blood pressure is often asymptomatic. there may be vague symptoms of headache and if the blood pressure becomes too high changes in mental status. most of the symptoms arise from the complications e. g. heart failure myocardial infarction renal failure stroke peripheral vascular disease etc.
what is done to correct mitral valve insufficiency?
the vast majority of patients with mitral regurge can be treated medically. however when the leak is severe a more agressive approach is often needed. the mitral valve in this case can be either repaired or replaced. this is done to treat or prevent heart failure. there are several studies that indicated that repair is preferable to replacement.
what are the symptoms of left sided heart failure due to your heart's low output?
these can vary tremendously from person to person. the symptoms can include fatigue weakness decreased exercise tolerance shortness of breath pulmonary edema. it can be associated with abnormal heart rhythms and also with symptoms of right heart failure as well (and commonly right heart failure symptoms do co-exist).
what are the signs of congestive heart failure?
signs include shortness of breath fatigue swelling of legs.
what are the signs of congestive heart failure?
the signs of congestive heart failure are1 edema(swelling) of feet and legs palpable liver engorged neck veins and rales at bases or all over the lungs on auscultation in some cases depending on the cause rapid heart beat. the signs are dependant on the severity of chf.
what does it mean when your feet swells?
in the young and healthy feet swelling could mean a blood clot but usually on one side. some medications can cause leg swelling. heart failure protein manutrition advanced liver and kidney diseases can do that as well as does pregnancy etc. trauma excessive heat prolonged standing can cause some swelling too. some have idiopathic swelling--which mean no known cause. consult doc. good luck.
what does it mean when your feet swells?
swelling of the feet is called pedal edema. it can be caused by several things including kidney failure heart failure liver failure. a blood clot in the legs can also cause this problem but it is usually also associated with pain and redness in the legs.
what are some typical symptoms of heart failure in women?
shortness of breath on exertion or at night lying flat are common. swelling of the legs (edema) with resultant weight gain and fatigue are common.
what are the symptoms of carditis?
in medicine the suffix -itis denotes an inflammatory process. applied to the heart carditis implies an inflammation of the heart muscle. this can be viral or bacterial in origin or unknown. symptoms are related to heart failure including arrhythmias. treatment are supportive and should be directed toward the cause of the inflammation.
wouldn't a echocardiogram show early heart failure? also wouldn't a stethoscope and chest x-ray show copd?
an echocardiogram will not show the fluid in the lungs so it will not diagnose early heart failure. copd by definition has chronic airways obstruction which is diagnosed via pulmonary function testing. this is the only way to differentiate copd from asthma both of which can give the same stethoscope and x-ray findings.
wouldn't a echocardiogram show early heart failure? also wouldn't a stethoscope and chest x-ray show copd?
an echo would tend to have abnormalities in heart failure. it is very sensitive in detecting if the pumping action is decreased. (systolic failure). still 50% of patients have a kind of heart failure called "diastolic failure here the heart fails to "relax" properly. this can be detected via echo but is more difficult. neither xray nor exam is very sensitive for copd both can be normal in copd.
wouldn't a echocardiogram show early heart failure? also wouldn't a stethoscope and chest x-ray show copd?
an ekg may be entirely normal in early heart failure. pulmonary function tests are necessary to identify copd and rate it's severity. while a stethoscope and chest xray may give information about the lungs they are relatively insensitive when diagnosing copd.
what are some symptoms of left sided heart failure due to effects on the lungs?
left sided heart failure and pulmonary edema(fluid in lungs) mainly results in shortness of breath (sob). sob with exertion and at rest in worse cases. you may also get leg swelling in addition. you may also notice sob while lying flat.
what are the symptoms associated with heart cancer?
the commonest cancers in the heart are metastatic cancer and may be asymptomatic for cardiac involvement. primary cardiac tumors may cause embolic lesions resulting in stroke blood in urine hemorrhagic and necrotic lesions in hands and feet fever and heart failure.
what is acute pulmonary edema and how is it treated?
acute pulmonary edema is the sudden onset of increased fluid in the lungs. there are many causes of this one of the most common being left-sided heart failure. the treatment depends on the cause but diuretics are typically given while the exact cause is being determined. some reasons for acute pulmonary edema won't respond to diuretics so the precise diagnosis needs to be made.
what are the symptoms of endocardial cushion defects?
ecd is a congenital defect of both the atrial and ventricular septa as well as abnormalities of the atrioventricular valves. it is a complicated defect associated with down's syndrome frequently. its symptoms may be due to too much blood flow to the lungs (respiratory diress and heart failure). sometimes if not diagnosed early enough pulmonary vascular disease(cyanosis) may occur.
what are the symptoms of heart failure to watch for in kids?
your child has had surgery on his heart. he may sweat breath fast have an increased rapid heart rate and his liver may become enlarged as well as showing decreased activity.
what are the symptoms of right sided heart failure?
rt sided heart failure is due to long standing high blood pressure in pulmonary arteriesand right ventricle of the heart. symptoms are shortness of breath and lightheadedness during activities chest discomfort or pain swelling of feet and ankles. symptoms of underlying cause wheezing and cough and fainting spells with activities.
what are the common presenting symptoms of inflammation of lining of the heart?
if the pericardium (outer lining of the heart) is inflamed it could lead to congestive heart failure by constricting the heart muscle or causing arrhythmia. it could cause cardiac pain fever or shortness of breath. the physical & x-ray findings in pericarditis are stunning.
what are the symptoms of hyperlipidemia?
high cholesterol levels and high ldl levels are associated with atherosclerotic cardio-vascular disease and may produce symptoms of heart attack heart failure leg pain gangrene stroke etc. high levels of triglycerides may cause pancreatitis that produced severe abdominal pain and may cause shop. high hdl elves are good an produce no symptoms. some lipid disorders cause xanthomas.
what are the typical symptoms of left sided heart failure?
shortness of breath is major symptom.
what does 'right heart' failure mean?
in right heart failure the right side of the heart (aka right ventricle) is affected and weakened. it can occur as consequence of pulmonary hypertension or severe lung disease (cor pulmonalae) or end stage left sided failure.
what are the symptoms of left sided heart failure?
the left side of the heart pumps blood throughout your body. when it fails it decreases blood flow to organs. this can cause kidney injury liver injury fatigue shortness of breath with little exertion swelling of the feet and legs fluid build-up in the lungs and difficulty sleeping flat due to shortness of breath. medications and diet are important for this disease!
what is basal septum hypokinesis of the heart?
hypokinesis means abnormally low contraction and wall motion of the segment of the heart. the greater the number of left ventriculuar wall segments with hypokinesis the worse the overall heart function is and the greater the chance of developing heart failure and premature death.
what are the potential dangers of cardiac hypokinesis?
hypokinesis means abnormally low contraction and wall motion of the segment of the heart. the greater the number of left ventriculuar wall segments with hypokinesis the worse the overall heart function is and the greater the chance of developing heart failure and premature death.
what are the tests for chronic high blood pressure?
in addition to monitoring your blood pressure you should have your cholesterol and blood sugar checked as high cholesterol and diabetes go along with high blood pressure often. kidney function should also be monitored over time. a baseline ekg is helpful as well. an echocardiogram may be needed later in life to evaluate for heart failure.
what are the signs and symptoms of left sided heart failure associated with decreased cardiac output?
the left side of the heart pumps blood throughout your body. when it fails it decreases blood flow to organs. this can cause kidney injury liver injury fatigue shortness of breath with little exertion swelling of the feet and legs fluid build-up in the lungs and difficulty sleeping flat due to shortness of breath. medications and diet are important for this disease!
what are the symptoms associated with an atrial septal defect?
even patients with large asds often have no symptoms until later in life. some young children with large asds get respiratory infections more commonly. as patients age they can have symptoms of right heart failure (decreased energy large liver swollen ankles) rhythm abnormalities or cyanosis (turning blue from not enough blood getting to the lungs). we try to treat asds before symptoms develop.
what are the signs and symptoms of left sided heart failure due associated with decreased cardiac output?
breathlessness especially with exertion. easy fatigability. impaired exercise capacity. these are early signs. without treatment one becomes short of breath resting especially when lying down (orthopnea) and at night (paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea). eventually the right heart also fails leading to swelling (edema) abdominal fluid (ascites and effusions) and cachexia (wasting).
what are the symptoms of kidney failure if high blood pressure?
higher bp as kidneys cannot get rid of salt stroke heart failure and death are some of the signs. specialize in this and happy to help.
what's pulmonary hypertension?
high blood pressure in the lungs is called pulmonary hypertension (ph) or pulmonary arterial hypertension (pah). pah is a chronic and life-changing disease that can lead to right heart failure if left untreated.
what are the symptoms of acute cardiovascular disease?
depending on which cv disease you mean: heart attack? heart failure? cardiac arrest? etc. very generally heart disease causes one or more of the following: chest pain shortness of breath fluid retention palpitations dizziness or loss of consciousness. (sorry but that's a general answer to a general question).
what are the tests for right-sided heart failure?
echocardiogram of the heart.
what are the symptoms of left-sided heart failure?
breathlessness especially with exertion. easy fatigability. impaired exercise capacity. these are early signs. without treatment one becomes short of breath resting especially when lying down (orthopnea) and at night (paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea). eventually the right heart also fails leading to swelling (edema) abdominal fluid (ascites and effusions) and cachexia (wasting).
what is the treatment for dropsy?
dropsy is a general term for widespread accumulation of fluid/water in tissues. the common causes are heart failure low blood protein due to kidney or liver disease malabsorption nutritional deficiency. the treatment is based on the etiology of the fluid accumulation. each of the disorders causing fluid accumulation has other factors that need to be taken into account for treatment.
what is right heart failure?
in the normal heart the right side pumps blood to the lungs and the left side pumps blood to the body. causes of right heart failure may be copd from smoking or pulmonary stenosis.
what is right heart failure?
blood flows from the veins to be right heart to the lungs to the left heart and back out to the body. when a part of the heart is not functioning blood backstop behind the nonfunctioning segment increasing pressure. when the right heart is not working blood backstop behind the right heart increasing pressure in the veins. this causes venous fluid to drain into the surrounding tissue.
what symptoms are associated with a ventricular septal defect?
vsd's in kids rarely causes any symptoms. theoretically signs of heart failure such as shortness of breath fatigue paleness may occur.
why does heart failure lead to edema in the ankles?
in the patient with congestive heart failure the body senses that the heart is not working correctly. it sends a message the kidneys to hold onto salt and water that the patient eats and drinks. this excess salt and water builds up and becomes apparent in the legs belly and lungs.
why does heart failure lead to edema in the ankles?
heart failure causes edema because they heart cannot pump the blood delivered to it. this inability to pump the blood allows the blood to pool in some areas of the body and the ankles are one of them. others include the abdomen and sacrum.
what are the symptoms of constrictive pericarditis?
can range from mild shortness of breathe with exertion to flash pulmonay edema and florid heart failure.
what are the symptoms of constrictive pericarditis?
the most striking finding in constrictive pericarditis is severe edema with minimal respiratory symptoms unlike in patients with heart failure. the neck veins are engorged the abdomen is distended with enlarged liver and ascites and the extremities are severely swollen and yet patient appears to be quite comfortable even when lying in bed nearly flat
what is the best treatment for a mild case of constrictive pericarditis?
constrictive pericarditis is a thickening of the pericardial lining of the heart. it can cause reduced filling of the heart and lead to heart failure in severe cases along with decreased blood flow out of the heart to the rest of the body. in "mild" cases cautious use of diuretics and medicines to lower the pressure inside the heart can successfully avoid heart failure.
what causes chest pain and difficulty breathing after exercise?
most probably exercise induced asthma or coronary artery disease or congestive heart failure or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. needs to be evaluated.
what causes difficulty breathing when lying down?
ongoing problem or recent? fever? chest pain? otherwise sick? age? other health issues? could be anything from carrying excess weight in the midsection (make it difficult to take a deep breath while lying down) to heart failure or fluid in lungs from infection or tumor. you should definitely see a doctor to get this checked out soon.
wakening up at night coughing can't beath now feet are swollen?
do you see a heart doctor? if not then have you seen your primary doctor about it. sounds like you may have congestive heart failure. it needs to be treated immediately.
what is the medicine zestoretic (lisinopril and hydrocholorthiazide) used to treat?
combination drug consisting of zestril (lisinopril an ace inhibitor) & hydrochlorothiazide [hctz] a diuretic. it is used for treating hypertension & congestive heart failure that's not responding well to diuretics (or digoxin) alone. ace inhibitors also have a protective effect on the kidneys in diabetics.
why would an endocrinologist not prescribe indapamide with my atenolol?
it's hard to answer the question without knowing what you're treating. if hyperthyroidism is the underlying problem then beta blocker therapy (i. e. atenolol) is often sufficient and diuretics (e. g. indapamide) are usually unnecessary. these types of meds are often prescribed together in congestive heart failure but they don't have to be. discuss your concerns with your doctor.
what is primary pulmonary hypertension like?
high blood pressure in the lungs is called pulmonary hypertension (ph) or pulmonary arterial hypertension (pah). primary ph is now known as idiopathic (no clear cause) pah which is a chronic and life-changing disease that can lead to breathlessness and right heart failure if left untreated.
what is danger of primary pulmonary hypertension?
untreated it can be fatal. there are many factors that influence survival such as age sex presence of heart failure etc. thus it is best not to make a general statement before a thorough evaluation. the key is early evaluation and treatment.
what is the difference between cor pulmonale right-sided heart failure?
cor pulmonale implies right sided heart failure due to lung disease. there are other causes of right heart failure the most common of which is left heart failure. other causes are congenital heart disease and disease of the tricuspid valve.
what is the life expectancy for a person with primary pulmonary hypertension?
there are many factors that influence survival such as age sex presence of heart failure etc. thus it is best not to make a general statement before a thorough evaluation. for example in some studies 85% of patients are alive at two years after diagnosis but if a patient has an episode requiring cpr only 6% survive two years. some keys to survival are early diagnosis and treatment.
why does right-sided heart failure causes peripheral edema?
blood from the legs (and rest of the body as well) returns to the right heart by large veins goes through the lungs to oxygenate and then into the left heart from where it is pumped to the rest of the body. when the right heart fails there is build up of back pressure on the veins and fluid seeps and accumulates in the dependent areas which is the legs and the gut.
what are symptoms of? mild mitral stenosis?
mild mitral stenosis does not usually cause symptoms. some people with more severe mitral stenosis have atrial fibrillation or heart failure.
what are a common side effects of tenormin (atenolol). should i take something else?
slow heart rate worsening of heart failure potentiation of asthma and hypokalemia and low blood sugar. fatigue sexual dysfunction are probably overstated. may have withdrawal if stopped suddenly. potential for mild weight gain. despite all these tenormin (atenolol) is usually well tolerated.
what does blood pressure have to do with heart disease?
blood pressure is responsible for lots of heart diseases and can do lots of thing to the heart namely heart enlargement. hypertrophy of left ventricle heart failure and heart attack. the bp can also cause dizziness and syncopy.
when treating someone who has chf with the drug orencia (abatacept) are any diuretics be given?
orencia (abatacept) has not been implicated in development of heart failure (hf) but has also not been studied in patients wit hf (<1% of patients in clinical trials had hf). while its use is not contraindicated it would be prudent to monitor your ejection fraction with echocardiogram every 6 months perhaps bnp blood test in between and starting a beta blocker such as carvedilol to protect against hf.
what are some symptoms of heart failure in women i should look for?
shortness of breath cough chest tightness or congested feeling fatigue leg swelling abdominal bloating cold sensation and decreased exercise tolerance are some of the symptoms.
which is more dangerous a hole in the heart or coarctation of the aorta?
since there are variations in the size of any hole or the amount of tightness in any coarctation the question cannot have a simple answer. some holes close without treatment some produce heart failure without treatment. some coarctations need urgent surgery while others can go years without treatment.
what is the treatment for right sided heart failure?
the best treatment for right heart failure is to treat the underlying cause. if the right heart fails due to lung disease then treat it or if it is due to congenital heart disease then try to correct the defect. sometimes the cause can't be determined or corrected and then we do the best we can to treat the symptoms.
what problem does more blood dumping into the heart's atria lead to?
volume overload to the atria will lead to pressure overload and chamber enlargement -- and this will lead to cardiac arrhythmia and others more serious like stroke heart failure and even cardiac arrest if left untreated.
what is the average lifespan of someone with aortic stenosis if not corrected?
patients with uncorrected aortic stenosis have a poor survival: half of the patients that develop angina (chest pain) will die within 5 years half of the patients that develop syncope (passing out) will die within 3 years and half of the patients that develop heart failure will die within 2 years. aortic valve replacement can pretty much normalize the life span and improve symptoms markedly.
what are warning signs of a failing heart?
the first warning will be that you cannot keep up with your usual pace doing fitness activities without getting winded. the first symptom is often mild nausea no one knows why. if you suddenly feel breathless when lying down and must sit up or if your shoes are tight at the end of the day you have been warned. caught early heart failure may be easy to reverse. good luck.
what is the difference between congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease or do you have both?
coronary artery disease is a narrowing of the small blood vessels that supply blood and oxygen to the heart. (<link> congestive heart failure is a condition in which the heart can no longer pump enough blood to the rest of the body. (<link>
what is the typical course with viral myocarditis?
there is no typical course. depends on the etiology (the causative agent) the initial presentation the age of onset (kids are more likely to respond to immunoglobulin) the response to therapy viral load etc. some patients fully recover some progress to heart failure with need for transplantation.
what are causes of right sided heart failure?
most common cause of r sided failure is l sided failure. pulmonary hypertension primary lung diseases and valvular problems can also produce this.
why does hydralazine work in treating congestive heart failure in african americans?
hydralazine dilates the blood vessels lowers the blood pressure and unloads the heart. this along with nitrates is particularly helpful if unable to take or have insufficient bp lowering from ace inhibitors/ arb.
why is the heart more vulnerable to atherosclerosis than other muscles?
interruption of blood flow to any muscle may result in cell death loss in function and scarring. if this occurs in the heart the results can be devastating resulting in death or disability due to arrhythmia and congestive heart failure.
why does right-sided heart failure causes swollen feet and ankles?
the right side of your heart accepts blood returning from the extremities. if it can't keep up blood starts to back up in the extremities and causes swelling. think of a basement pump. if its not powerful enough to keep up with the water seeping in the basement will flood.
why does right-sided heart failure causes swollen feet and ankles?
if the pump is having a hard time getting the blood into the heart it will end up staying in the dependent areas (ie legs) so one will get swollen legs and ankles.
what is left ventricular assist device?
it is a device that propels blood thus taking over the function of the weak and failing left lower heart chamber. it is typically implanted in patients with severe class 4 heart failure who would otherwise have little mobility or not survive due to the failing heart.
what are the symptoms of right sided heart failure in a younger person?
the cause of the right sided failure wil influence the symptoms course of the disease and treatment. right heart failure in a younger person may be from untreated sleep apnea w/ seconadry pulmonary hypertension a pulmonary embolus can cause acute s/s primary pulmonary hypertension can. the pt usually has lower extremity edema perhapse acites with abdominal pain/ poor apetite.
what are the symptoms of cabg (coronary artery bypass graft) failing?
angina heart attack sometimes heart failure with shortness of breath or leg swelling without angina.
what are the symptoms of cabg (coronary artery bypass graft) failing?
similiar symptoms to what one experienced before surgery: chest pain shortness of breath heart failure.
which diagnoses are most appropriate for a person with wheezes dyspnea and tachypnea?
if you have been diagnosed with asthma and you are wheezing good chance that's why. if not a differential needs to be considered by your doctor and you need pulmonary function tests. you could have upper airway obstruction you could have inhaled a foreign object or you could have heart failure or copd to name a few. link: <link>
what are the most important cardiovascular diseases?
important is a relative term. it can be interpreted as most common or most devastating or most disabling etc. usually the one you have is the most important one. coronary disease heart failure stroke kidney disease peripheral arterial disease are the most common and as such may have the greatest impact on modern societies and adversely affect quality of life.
what are the risks of anesthetics to a heart patient?
many anesthetics are what we call 'cardiac depressants" and therefore if a heart is already weak or compromised(congestive heart failure) then the anesthetics themselves can worsen that. most insult to the heart patient comes from the surgical stress response and anesthesia will often times attenuate this. each patient is different. depending on what is wrong with the heart we will tailor th.
what are the consequences of forgetting diabetic / high blood pressure meds?
if short term not much. if long term or frequently it may contribute to vascular disease stroke kidney disease heart failure. don't forget to take the medications and make the bp is under adequate control.
when is surgery indicated for? a ventricular septal defect?
a small vsd may close spontaneously as a baby grows or the babies system may decompensate under the strain of the extra work & progress to heart failure. many times this can be managed for a time with meds. if baby is thriving on meds & close observation they may wait before repairing the defect. this decision is made by the surgeon & pedi-cardiologist based on individual factors.
what is done for congestive heart failure?
since the primary cause is atherosclerosis >> coronary artery disease (even if lumens look ok on angiography) >> reduced blood flow & heart muscle damage aggressively treat the factors driving atherosclerosis [lipoproteins (not cholesterol) blood sugar bp etc. to abnormally healthy levels] remove excess body water keep bp low nl treat with acei (aceon (perindopril) 1 of best) & carvedilol exercise etc.
what is done for congestive heart failure?
this depends on the cause of the heart failure. by and large medications weight and blood pressure control and restricted salt intake are the starting point. the cause of the heart failure has to be determined for more definitive therapy.
what are the signs of? a ventricular septal defect?
a vsd is a hole between the bottom two pumping chambers of the heart. symptoms are usually based on age and size. a young infant born with a large vsd can progressive to congestive heart failure. the right ventricle receives extra blood flow from the left and sends it to the lungs resulting in fluid overload. some medications used are lasix (furosemide) to manage medically as infant gains weight before surgery.
what is the relationship between known recurrent asthma and congestive cardiac failure?
heart failure can cause pulmonary edema (water logged lungs) for which one sign is wheeze (all that wheezes is not asthma). a related environmental cause - severe pollution could lead a person with both to have an exacerbation of both. but it is more likely that "cardiac asthma" isn't asthma at all but just the heart failure.
what can be done for a child with viral myocarditis?
this disease is caused by a virus; there is no specific treatment for the virus which willl slowly go away by itself but will leave varying amounts of damage. your doctors will focus on managing resulting symtpoms of heart failure and/or arrhythmias in the acute phase and later. children who do not have degenerative heart disease as well usually do better than adults.
what can prevent someone that had heart surgery from getting fluid in the lungs?
fluid in the lungs after heart surgery is usually due to congestive heart failure. chf is not an uncommon complication depending on the condition before surgery and the type of operation but it can be managed efficiently and well by the surgical team. follow their advice take medicines as prescribed don't smoke and you'll have done all you can do.
why does left and/or right heart failure lead to edema?
right heart failure leads to venous stasis and edema on the lower body first and upper body last.
what is the significance of congestive heart failure in the medical history if it has now resolved?
chf is a symptom. we treat possible causes that makes heart weak (htn diabetes atrial fibrillation irregular heart beats thyroid conditions anemai etc) so your medical history is all significant.
what's the longest someone could live with mild congestive heart failure (chf) diagnosed at 90?
every day is a blessing. you beat the odd of survival by almost 20 years. bless you.
what's the difference between left heart failure vs right heart failure?
right heart (right ventricle and atrium) failure typically has dependent edema liver enlargement and increased jugular venous pulsations. left heart (left ventricle and atrium) failure typically manifests with pulmonary edema. you can even have a combination of the two. this classification is not used as much. we have a systolic a diastolic and mixed heart failure- this is the most used.
why does right heart failure cause jaundice?
liver edema and hypoxia (less oxygenated blood gets to the lover cells) can lead to jaundice.
what is the meaning of a mildly enlarged heart on a chest xray?
radiologists favorite plant? answer: the hedge. on a pa/lateral chest xray the heart may be up to 50% of the thoracic diameter. beyond this the heart is said to be enlarged- i. e. a sign of heart failure. if the heart barely meets this criteria or is slightly larger the radiologist may say that it is "mildly enlarged" or "heart size is borderline".
what're the common causes of breathing problems?
there are many many causes of breathing problems. some are related to the respiratory system (asthma copd) others to the cardiac system (congestive heart failure). some problems are due to infection (pneumonia) and others related to trauma (quadriplegia). there are congenital causes (cystic fibrosis) and some causes where the etiology is not known. there are so many causes so see your doctor!
waht causes pulmonary edema?
anything that allows fluid to leak from the blood or lymphatics into the lung tissue and air spaces. infection heart failure sever protein malnutrition trauma kidney failure etc can all do it. overwhelming the hydrostic equilibrium or decreasing the oncotic pressure all allow fluid to move into the lung.
waht causes pulmonary edema?
pulmonary edema can be caused by many things - but by far however the most common cause is heart failure. in this scenario - the left side of the heart cannot keep up with demand and essentially fluid "backs up" into the lungs (this is an oversimplification and doesn't discuss lymphatic flow the starling curve oncotic pressure etc. etc. ) but we only have 400 characters here.
what breathing problems are associated with a shortness of breath in chest?
bronchial asthma copd congestive heart failure pulmonary embolism pulmonary fibrosis and other chronic diseases of lungs.
what is dropsy?
dropsy is an old english term for the swelling noted in right heart failure (anasarca is the greek word for it).
what will be the interaction be between aortic stenosis and weight lifting?
symptoms of aortic stenosis are syncope (passing out) angina (chest pain) and heart failure. weight lifting may actually increase the heart muscle thickness (although the right heart may be affected more). with aortic stenosis the left heart gets thicker. weight training is probably okay but you need to discuss it with your cardiologist.
what are the signs and symptoms of viral myocarditis?
some may be relatively without symptoms although there may be fever chest pains and signs and symptoms of heart failure (another detailed subject). there may also be changes in heart rate and rhythm. often the symptoms are not very specific and require detailed testing to establish the diagnosis.
why am i retaining water on my legs ankles and feet even if i have not eating for the day and some times i get swelling during the night?
include circulation problems like heart failure kidney problems liver disease low protein levels obesity varicose veins low thyroid etc. it is unusual for swelling to get worse overnight if you're lying flat. see a doctor to get evaluated for the cause.
what does ccf mean?
this is an uncommon abbreviation for congestive cardiac failure or more often congestive heart failure. this is its only medical use that i know.
what could be causing both of my feet to swell up?
there are many causes of foot swelling in adults. all of them require a professional to check them out to see which is causing the problem. these could include high blood pressure retention of fluid from kidney problems congestive heart failure as well other metabolic conditions. get a good physical for your own protection. cong.
what's the role of the pericardium?
the pericardium is a lining around the heart muscle. its function is of little value but it is thought to be a barrier against foreign bodies or proteins that might harm the heart muscle. its only significance is when the pericardium is inflammed as in pericarditis or when fluid builds up around the heart and collects between the heart and pericardium and can cause heart failure.
what would you look for in someone who has developed pulmonary edema pretty fast?
usually sever heart failure caused by either a problem with the heart muscle or a very abnormal heart rhythm. however sepsis can also cause flash pulmonary edema if it effects the heart but this is not as common.
what are some treatments for chronic nausea due to congestive heart failure?
chf leads to poorly oxygenated organs causing shortness of breath less ability to do same activity as used to many systemic sx such as fatigue loss of appetite. nausea weakness. first. doc must establish that something else isn't causing nausea (side effect of med gastritis reflux of acid) and rx that. but key is optimizing rx (right combo meds low salt intake mild exercise) of the chf.
what sign would help distinguish if pneumonia v. congestive heart failure?
fever chills productive cough and chest pain with deep breaths maybe more consistent with pneumonia while shortness of breath that wakes you at night or shortness of breath when laying flat and swelling of the legs may be more consistent with heart failure. if you have any of these symptoms please see your doctor immediately.
what are ace inhibitors used for?
ace inhibitors are blood pressure medications used for blood pressure treatment. they also have effects independent of the blood pressure effect on the heart particularly for people with heart failure and on the kidneys particulaly for people who have diabetic-induced kidney disease with protein in the urine.
what does it mean to have swollen ankles and low blood pressure?
hi: you need a history and physical by an md to rule out an arrhythmia or congestive heart failure.
what does it mean to have swollen ankles and low blood pressure?
right sided heart failure and low cardiac output can cause ankle swelling. the gravity pressure on the venous system the heart cannot pull the fluid up the legs this can cause fluid to move out of the vascular system and into the tissues around the legs and feet .
what are the most common type of heart conditions?
arrhythmias such as atrial fibrillation is most common. congestive heart failure is the most common admission to hte hospital heart attacks are the #1 killer.
why would a doctor give nitroglycerin for high blood pressure?
nitrates are vasodilators but are usually weak bp lowering agents ( not to mention the headaches) and would only be used in pts with angina or heart failure pts. they are also used in pts with coronary vasospasm pts. if pts have one of theses conditions and bp is not optimal the dr may increase your dosage in hopes of treating both conditions.
what poisonous metals can cause angina or heart failure?
mercury and lead - are known to cause significant damage to the heart muscle.
what dot ventricular hypertrophy and familial hypercholesterolemia mean?
entities. ventricular hypertrophy and hypercholesterolemia are usually not related. hyper-cholestrolemia causes heart disease and ventricular hypertrophy may end up in heart failure. please be more specific in your question.
what are the main risks of suffering from pulmonary hypertension?
common symptoms of pulmonary hypertension (ph) include breathlessness chest pain dizziness chronic fatigue edema (leg swelling) light-headedness or fainting at rest or with exercise and dry cough. in severe cases right heart failure may develop resulting in death.
what are the main risks of suffering from pulmonary hypertension?
high pulmonary pressures cause right sided heart failure arrythmia and sudden cardiac death. a thorough work up for the underlying cause should be done.
what are the signs of water retention?
mild sodium/fluid retention is seen as "bags" under eyes after laying down or as swelling in lower extremities after standing. common even in younger people if they have eaten a fair amount of salt or had to stand motionless for prolonged periods. swelling up the leg is more advanced retention. if retention due to left heart failure fluid can back up into lungs causing breathlessness.
what is congestive heart failure?
a normal heart will eject (ef) about 60% of blood from main chamber (left ventricle) out aorta and feeds entire body with oxygenated blood. when this muscle chamber size of fist develops weakness of some of it's walls (heart attack eg) or is constricted (pericarditis) etc then it starts failing ef decreases backup pressure develops fluid builds up in lungs or legs and chf has occurred.
what is congestive heart failure?
is exactly what is says it is. you usually have congestion in the chest caused by blood/fluid backing up in your lung. and that is because the patient has a failing heart - either because it has a very weak muscle like in systolic heart failure when the ejection fraction
what is congestive heart failure?
chf is when the heart is not pumping the blood adequately out of the heart into the aorta and the blood backs up causing the lungs to fill with fluid due to the increase in hydrostatic pressures. for class iii or class iv chf - eecp is recommended.
what could cause my feet to swell?
excessive sodium intake renal and heart disease esp congestive heart failure and venous stasis.
waking up with congestion with chest tightness. what should i do?
chest x-ray aspiration / hiatal hernia bronchitis pneumonia heart/ angina/ heart failure/pulmonary edema.
what can cause a deep vein thrombosis?
dvt occurs when virchow's triad is satisfied: hemodynamic abnormality (stasis turbulence) endothelial damage and hypercoagulability (abnormality in blood due to malignancy increased risk in clot formation). family history (thrombophilia) surgery trauma dehydration prolonged bed rest congestive heart failure kidney problems are risk factors.
what could cause low blood pressure?
for the average person the most common cause of low bp is from dehydration--not getting enough fluids/foods. for elderly this is even more common. also medications can also do this. autonomic dysfunctions as in parkinson disease or advanced diabetes; heart failure liver failure rapid blood loss/bleeding etc. are other major causes. if you have problem consult doc. good luck.
what are the consequences of having an enlarged heart?
congestive heart failure would be consequence to be avoided. get an echocardiogram & see a cardiologist if this is a concern.
what is related to cardiovascular disease?
stroke and heart attack are the big two. hypertension arrythmias valve disease congestive heart failure peripheral vascular disease aneurysms are next on the list.
what can i do to relieve chest pressure and a hard time breathing?
if you these symptoms you should be ruled out of heart and lung problems such as coronary artery disease heart failure asthma bronchitis copd etc. so get checked.
what is mitral valve stenosis?
this is a narrowing of the valve opening usually caused by rheumatic fever. it eventually leads to respiratory symptoms and heart failure. fortunately it can be successfully treated with surgery.
what causes ebsteins anomaly?
this is a congenital heart malformation of the tricuspid valve which has no obvious cause. the valve leaks and requires surgical repair to treat or prevent heart failure.
what are the effects of steroids on the heart?
steroids can cause high blood pressure. it can cause water retention and worsen congestive heart failure in moderate to high doses. rarely high dose steroids used for a extended length of time can cause weakening of the heart muscle and is known as steroid induced cardiomyopathy.
whats a cause of cardiogenic shock?
cardiogenic shock occurs because of a low output state causing significant low blood pressure. the decrease in cardiac output results from congestive heart failure and or an abrupt insult the cardiac muscle resulting in less cardiac function and this less output. the management involves mess lie dobutamine as well as bp raising rx such as dopamine or levophed (norepinephrine). balloon pump insertion may help.
what are the symptoms of asd?
have no symptoms at all. the therapy is indicated to prevent late symptoms in adulthood like rhythm problems exercise intolerance and rarely right heart failure and pulmonary hypertension.
what are the statistics of death rate of elderly people on lasix (furosemide)?
do you mean: how many people died due to the use of furosemide (lasix)? (due to toxic dose? side effects? ) how many people taking lasix (furosemide) died for any cause? lasix (furosemide) (diuretic) is usually given to patients for several reasons some of them are very severe such as congestive heart failure and chronic renal failure.
would a pe present itself with only pain as the symptom? and would the pain be likely to dramatically increase with walking?
small pulmonary embolisms may not cause pain or even any symptoms at all. some have chronic tiny pe without knowing it. it usually only cause pain if a "right-size pe" get the periphery of lung where inflammation can cause pain with breathing. otherwise larger ones often cause shortness of breath dizziness fatigue and maybe r heart failure etc. take your medication. consult doc. good luck.
what is fluid in the heart chambers?
it seems like you have congestive heart failure. cut down fluid intake and take a diuretics get an heart echocardiogram done to check ejection fraction and leaky valve.
what is fluid in the heart chambers?
i suspect you mean congestive heart failure. this disease means the heart is not pumping effectively and less than 50% is being pumped out with each beat.
what is the purpose of spironolactone in congestive heart failure?
spironolactone lowers blood pressure and initiates diuresis while sparing magnesium & potassium. it's an older drug that has found new use now because it blocks aldersterone from injuring heart muscle & increases heart muscle norepinephrine. studies show it improves survival in left heart failure. see <link>
what is the purpose of spironolactone in congestive heart failure?
part of medical therapy for congestive heart failure is to decrease blood volume returning to the heart. this is achieved by diuretics (water pills). spironolactone (aldactone) is one such medication that has an added benefit of saving potassium which can be excreted with use of other diuretics. spironolactone is often combined with other heart failure medications for this benefit.
which organs are effected in htn?
almost all of your organs may be effected by htn. the heart and all the arteries are effected by htn. the organs that are most commonly effected are the heart[ heart disease and heart failure ] kidneys [kidney failure ] eyes[ blindness] and brain [stroke]if hypertension is chronic and untreated.
what's the average life expectancy of a person with williams syndrome?
rare disorder multiple systems involved apearance of face and body demonstrates poor developement. loss of hearing diabetes heart failure aortic valve abnormalities high blood pressure just to name a few issues. life expectancy depends on early diagnosis and intense treatment and follow up. it can be normal except if there heart defect that is serious.
what is done for someone with congestive heart failure?
the underlying cause. medical therapy is extremely effective. however the underling cause as well as symptoms drive therapy. see your doctor or cardiologist to plan your treatment.
what do these results mean? bp 170/110 and 220/110
untreated places you at increased risk for stroke heart attack heart failure. see your doctor and get it treated.
what vital signs would you expect from a 61 year old male with right sided heart failure?
sorry but hard to say. make sure he is being followed closely by a cardiologist to maximize quality of life and minimize hospitalizations.
when someone has end stage renal failure how long can they typically be expected to live if they do not get dialysis or transplant? 92 y/o with chf.
chf and impaired renal function are difficult to deal with because improving one makes the other worse. it is a fine line between reducing fluid to help the heart failure but keeping enough to keep the kidney function from getting worse. dialysis may be the best answer. see his nephrologist for an answer.
what to do if you have liver cirrhosis with complications on heart?
what type of complications are you referring to? chronic right heart failure can cause liver cirrhosis by passive congestion (liver engorged with water and becomes fibrotic or scarred over time). certain conditions such as hemochromatosis (iron overload) can cause both heart failure and liver cirrhosis. liver cirrhosis itself can cause water retention particularly in the belly called ascites.
what are the signs of congestive heart failure in adults?
shortness of breath at rest or mild exertion which may worsen on lying down swelling of legs fatigue considerable weight gain in a short time.
what are the signs of congestive heart failure in adults?
include shortness of breath at rest and with exertion particularly when lying down swelling in the ankles and feet fatigue to name a few. see your doctor
what causes jugular venous reflux?
the jugular vein connects directly to the superior vena cava and then to the right atrium of the heart. when the heart is overfilled the jugular vein becomes distended. if you press on the liver you can accentuate this ("hepato-jugular reflux") and that observation is used to increase the sensitivity of the physical exam for early signs of heart failure.
what to do low blood pressure and having trouble breathing?
depends on how long u have breathing diffi. and low bp. you are young. not sure if you have any other symptoms like heart rhythym abnormalities dizziness racing heart chest pain fainting like feeling. cardiac valvular diseases can cause above symptoms. similarly cardiac mucle heart failure cad viral heart dz. to be r/o. other problems adrenal prob anemia pneumonia blood clots-lungs can +.
what are the symptoms of heart failure? and what tests are used to diagnose it?
sob & edema are typical. . chest x-ray & echocardiogram are usually part of the initial evaluation.
what are the symptoms of heart failure? and what tests are used to diagnose it?
shortness of breath swelling in the feet and possibly the abdomen. breathing will likely be worse with walking and laying down.
what are the symptoms of heart failure? and what tests are used to diagnose it?
the usual symptoms of heart failure include shortness of breath with or without leg swelling -- and the diagnosis is made by a thorough clinical exam and chest x-ray.
what are the symptoms of heart failure? and what tests are used to diagnose it?
most common sign is shortness of breath but other signs are weight gain . swelling of legs and fatigue. tests used to evaluate for heart failure are chest xray echo blood test called brain naturetic peptid and examination.
what are the congestive heart failure signs and symptoms?
sob & edema are typical. . chest x-ray & echocardiogram are usually part of the initial evaluation.
what are symptoms of pulmonary embolism after dvt?
if the clot is big sudden shortness of beath chest pain rapid breathing/heart rate dizziness/weakness fatigue heart failure blue/cyanotic lips/fingers/toes etc. . some people suffer from chronic embolism--small/tiny clots which may not cause much symptoms at all but over time can cause more damage. so if you have trouble wtih dvt etc. take your meds and follow doc regularly. good luck.
what is congestive heart failure treatment for elderly?
treatment consists of a good dietary regimen with monitoring of salt intake about 2000 mg salt per day. second aspect pf therapy is pharmacologic therapy which will be individualised based on the type of heart faiure and other factors that your cardiologist will decide.
what is congestive heart failure treatment for elderly?
than for younger patients. talk to your cardiologist.
what do heart failure and pericarditis have in common?
pericarditis by preventing the heart from moving properly may result in worsening heart failure. this can be corrected by relieving fluid accumulation or in some cases by opening or removing the pericardium.
what is the current management of hypertension?
the usual first four measures are ace inhibitors or arbs (angiotensin receptor blockers) beta blockers calcium channel blockers (preferably amlodipine for my pts) and diuretics (usually ones called chlorthalidone or hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) if for hypertension only and not heart failure). in order i usually use a diuretic or ace first whichever of those 2 i didn't use second and beta blockers last.
what are symptoms of congestive heart failure that are visible before a diagnostic test?
shortness of breath initially with exercise and in more severe cases even at rest. this may be worse when lying flat and may cause awakening with shortness of breath. frequent nighttime awakening to pass urine may occur. swelling of the ankles may develop engorgement of veins in the neck may be seen. in very severe cases there may even be swelling of the abdomen.
what will happened if i don't treat hyperthyroism?
many issues depending on how severe. these may include: arrythmias such as atrial fibrillation hypertension cardiomyopathy and heart failure. other issues could also include weight loss elevated blood sugar anxiety hair loss shortness of breath and the list goes on. bottom line get treated.
what is the prognosis for heart failure at 89?
not all that favorable.
what are the symptoms of congestive heart failure?
chest pain cough crackles in lungs distended neck veins enlarged heart enlarged liver fever heart murmur nocturia pounding heartbeat pleural effusion difficulty breathing swelling wheezing difficulty breathing when lying down fatigue lethargy.
what are the symptoms of congestive heart failure?
include shortness of breath at rest and with exertion particularly when lying down swelling in the ankles and feet fatigue to name a few. see your doctor
what causes foot swelling?
trauma such as broken bones sprains strains. problems with veins and lymphatic systems. systemic disorders such as high blood pressure and heart failure. blood clots may cause swelling of one leg.
what is the treatment for congestive heart failure in salt sensitive people?
salt restriction is obvious. medication classes that may help (usually a combination of several is best) include the ace-i's arb's beta blockers and aldosterone antagonists and diuretics. the choice of treatments will be determined by contributing factors such as valvular problems coronary disease rhythm disturbances kidney function etc. any remediable causes should be treated.
what is left sided heart failure and is it fatal?
left-sided heart failure results in fluid buildup in the lungs and causes shortness of breath. this can be a result of problems with the mitral valve. if this is the case correction of the valvular disease can arrest progression of the disease. typically over time the right heart will also fail.
what is done for pregnancy induced congestive heart failure?
peripartum cardiomyopathy occurs rarely but can be very dangerous even fatal. treatment is the same as other forms of dilated cardiomyopathy namely beta blockers ace inhibitors and diuretics. in most cases heart function returns to normal within 6 months. unfortunately if you have it with one pregnancy you have better than a 50% chance of having it with subsequent pregnancies!
what are the signs and symptoms congestive heart failure?
shortness of breath initially with exercise and in more severe cases even at rest. this may be worse when lying flat and may cause awakening with shortness of breath. frequent nighttime awakening to pass urine may occur. swelling of the ankles may develop engorgement of veins in the neck may be seen. in very severe cases there may even be swelling of the abdomen.
what is the life expentancy for a 66 year old woman with stage 4 kidney failure and congestive heart failure and diabetes?
according to this website: <link> ncbi. nlm. nih. gov/pubmed/22442392 men and women aged 40 years had a life expectancy of 30. 5 and 34. 6 years at egfr? 60 ml/min/1. 73 m(2) 24. 5 and 28. 7 years at egfr 45-59 ml/min/1. 73 m(2) 14. 5 and 16. 5 years at egfr 30-44 ml/min/1. 73 m(2) and 10. 4 and 9. 1 years at egfr 15-29 ml/min/1. 73 m(2) respectively. patients with diabetes and chf can live shorter.
what is the life expentancy for a 66 year old woman with stage 4 kidney failure and congestive heart failure and diabetes?
but it can be extended with dialysis. no one must die from kidney failure in the 21st century. removing fluid with dialysis will also help the chf.
what can cause swollen feet and calves in an old woman?
the biggest concern would be congestive heart failure although it could be something as simple as venous insufficiency she should be evaluated by her primary care physician sooner than later.
what are some reasons why someones legs ankles and feet are swollen?
venous insufficiency lymphedema inflammatory arthritic conditions cogestive heart failure are some common ones. see your physician.
what can cause persistent fluid in the lungs and swollen ankles despite taking diuretics continuously?
pneumonia adult respiratory distress syndrome advanced malnutrition congestive heart failure hepatorenal syndrome uremia. the lack of response to diuretics implies that either the condition isn't responsive to diuresis or the dose needs to be adjusted. the condition appears to be complicated and should be further evaluated with consultants as needed.
what can cause persistent fluid in the lungs and swollen ankles despite taking diuretics continuously?
if you are taking the diuretic for heart failure and you have persistent edema and fluid in lungs your dose of diuretics is inadequate either dose is too low medication is not being absorbed in gut or medication is not being transported to kidney. will need an increased dose of diuretic a different diuretic or an additional diuretic.
what is a pediatric cardiologist and should they do fetal echo?
who takes care of children with heart disease many who are now diagnosed at or before birth can do a special ultrasound to focus on a fetus' heart. this procedure is usually done if there is a suspicion of a congenital heart problem by an ob/gyn a family history of congenital heart disease or certain other conditions (fetal arrhythmias signs of heart failure etc. ).
what could be wrong with me if i'm having chest pain?
here's the list (no specific order) depending on age and medical history: 1. heart attack 2. pericarditis 3. heart failure 4. pneumonia 5. bronchitis 6. asthma 7. pneumonitis (irritation from chemicals or drugs) 8. costochondritis (bruising) 9. pulmonary embolus 10. back injury/sprain 11. gerd 12. ulcer and many more. it needs to be evaluated by a doctor in the office or hospital.
what is the relationship of hypertension and risk for decrease cardiac output?
long-standing hypertension (or high blood pressure) leads to left ventricular hypertrophy and if untreated can eventually lead to congestive heart failure and decreased cardiac output. hypertension is also a risk factor for stroke and coronary artery disease (another potential etiology for decreased cardiac output).
what's furosemide and what is it used for?
lasix (furosemide) is a powerful diuretic meant to remove excess fluid and sodium from the body. it is used primarily to treat conditions such as congestive heart failure and kidney failure.
what is benazepril?
benazepril is an "ace-inhibitor" which is a fancy term for a medication primarily used for high blood pressure. it functions by inhibiting a step in the pathway used by the body to increase blood pressure and blood volume. the medication can be used for other things such as kidney protection and congestive heart failure.
what are killer diseases of the cardiovascular system?
the most certain answer to your question is atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) which can result in heart attacks and congestive heart failure both of which could result in death. there are also a number of inherited conditions which can result in fatal heart rhythms such as long qt syndrome hypertrophic cardiomyopathy brugada syndrome etc. ….
what heart conditions require a heart transplant?
the condition most commonly leading to heart transplantation is congestive heart failure. in the us the most common cause of congestive heart failure is of course coronary artery disease. however other causes of cardiomyopathy (weakness of the muscle of the heart) such as viral or post-partum cardiomyopathy etc. can lead to it as well.
what is the definition or description of: heart failure?
heart failure is a complex set of conditions in which the heart "fails" to pump a normal amount of blood with each beat. this can be due to poor squeezing function (systolic heart failure) and/or a stiff heart incapable of filling normally (diastolic heart failure). common symptoms include swelling and trouble breathing particularly when laying flat or exercising.
what is the definition or description of: heart failure?
chf is primarily caused by an issue in the heart that prevents it from being able to supply your body with the oxygen it needs. this can be caused by weakness of the heart muscle insufficiency of a valve in the heart or a rhythm disturbance that disrupts the forward flow of blood from the heart.
what is the difference between coughing with respiratory and coughing with cardiovascular diseases?
cough is a cough? but with infectious respiratory elements yellow green bloody production can occur. frequently also respiratory signs- short of breath chest wall pleuritic pain. heart - heart failure with congestion and white frothy production- which can turn pink if severe with edema of legs as well. cough is not the only or most common for heart issues and frequently later in clinical cours.
what are the most common cardiovascular system diseases?
hypertension hyperlipidemia and coronary artery disease. then congestive heart failure. many would also classify diabetes as a cardiovascular disease.
what is the definition or description of: heart transplant?
for patients with irreversible end stage heart failure their only treatment besides mechanical assist devices is a heart transplant. in this procedure the heart from a dead patient is removed and sewn into the recipient patient. anti rejection drugs are then used to prevent the heart from being immunologically rejected by the recipient.
what is the definition or description of: pulmonary hypertension?
high blood pressure (bp) in the lungs is called pulmonary hypertension (ph) or pulmonary arterial hypertension (pah). pah is a chronic and life-changing disease that can lead to right heart failure if left untreated.
what are the long term consequences of acute on chronic diastolic heart failure?
i assume you mean chronic diastolic heart failure with acute exacerbation. its what happens in diastolic heart failure-subject to intermittent acute exacerbation. it is particularly sensitive to heart rate and fluid volume. sudden death is another consequence besides heart failure. atrial fibrillation is common and therefore stroke risk. others die from comoerbiditieswhich are frequent such as kidney
what are the long term consequences of acute on chronic diastolic heart failure?
the subject is too broad to be discussed here. try webmd.
what are common diuretics prescribed?
the two most commonly prescribed diuretics in the united states are furosemide (lasix) and hydrochlorothiazide. generally speaking hydrochlorothiazide is used more for blood pressure control and lasix (furosemide) is used more for treatment of congestive heart failure. chlorthalidone bumetanide and torsemide also have important roles to play in my practice.
what is the definition or description of: aortic regurgitation?
the heart has flaps that help the direction of the flow of blood. the aortic valve separates the left ventricle from the aorta (the big artery that carries blood to the body. ) aortic regurgitation means that blood is leaking back thru the aortic valve into the heart. this can lead to overload of the heart and heart failure. cardiologist can do sonogram of heart to see how severe the condition is.
what is the life expectancy for someone with emphysema?
can affect life expectancy with emphysema. how severe is it how limited is your exercise tolerance have you ever been hospitalized to treat an exacerbation? how limited are your activities and what other ailments do you have? (coronary disease heart failure cancer etc. ) there is no text book with the answer to this question and even knowing all this won't lead to a very accurate answer.
whats symptoms causes persistent couphing at nights persistent sweating and at rare times increased heart beat for no reason?
several reason. most common one is due to asthma allergy bronchitis and postnasal drips. heart failure (which i do not expect in 20 year old person) also is on the list. please talk to your pcp.
what are the benefits and risks of taking salt pills?
people with low blood pressure might benefit from taking salt pills to help expand their plasma volume but people prone to congestive heart failure and high blood pressure might make those conditions worse.
what are diurese fluids for?
generally speaking the best use of diuretics is not in fact to remove fluid but rather to remove salt. in patients with conditions like congestive heart failure the body is unable to remove enough salt on its own. since water follows low-salt a buildup of fluid occurs. this is why it is generally also important to maintain a low salt diet in these conditions.
what is an aortic stenosis?
aortic stenosis is a hardening of the last valve in the heart; this valve is the last thing blood passes through before it is sent out to the body. as you would expect this valve is called the aortic valve. symptoms of aortic stenosis can include chest pain passing out and heart failure symptoms. the treatment of severe aortic stenosis is almost always surgical.
why does only left-sided heart failure cause pulmonary edema?
pul edema is fluid in the lungs due to a shift of fluid from the veins and capillaries to the sorroundings lung tissues. . this can happen when the pressure in the veins rises as in left heart failure or when the veins become leaky because of infection inflammation toxic chemicals and drugs etc. the other conditions include high altitude sudden chest decompression drowning.
why does only left-sided heart failure cause pulmonary edema?
failure of either heart is akin to an accident on the highway. the traffic will backup on the road segments ahead of the accident. in left heart failure the lungs are the segment of "road" immediately preceding the failed heart. in right heart failure the liver is immediately upstream and the lungs are in fact downstream.
what can i do to soothe my swollen feet caused by heart problems?
i will make an assumption and presume that this is edema (a symptom of heart failure or use of certain types of blood pressure medications). if this is the case elevating your feet and/or using compression stockings may produce a substantial improvement in your symptoms. there may also be some benefit to the use of certain types of diuretics.
what causes my feet to swell my feet has een swelling for the last few days and i would like to know what could be causing it?
many things from simple dietary indiscretions such as an excess of salt to medical conditions including congestive heart failure blood clot kidney insufficiency or liver insufficiency can cause the feet to swell. could also be related to arthritis gout plantar fasciitis or even medications (calcium channel blockers or nsaids like naproxen). work-up is necessary.
why does a male person get recuring pneumonia. he has had it 4 times in the last 3 months. does have copd heart problems diabetis 76 years old.?
recurring "pneumonia" usually means there is something else going on. if this is truly pneumonia more testing is likely in order to evaluate if there is something blocking the airway or there is an unusual organism causing the infection. what is more likely is that there is another explanation. this may be related to uncontrolled copd or heart failure. recommend seeing a lung specialist.
what to do when blood pressure is elivafed n humira (adalimumab) prednisone and lotabs forra feel very depressed nervous and headache
humira (adalimumab) rarely has any side effects and elevated blood pressure is not one of them. blood pressure can be raised by prednisone but also due to pain which i assume u have if you are on lortab. you may have essential hypertension which is not due to any medication or specific illness--this should be controlled since it can lead to heart failure over years. see your doctor so u can be evaluated & treated.
what is the definition or description of: diuretic?
by strict definition a diuretic is any medicine causing increased urination. more practically a diuretic is a medicine causing the kidney to secrete excess fluid by blocking the re-absorption of either water itself or electrolytes like sodium (primarily) potassium chloride and bicarbonate (sodium bicarbonate). these medicines are effective treatments for many disorders including heart failure and hypertension.
what are common causes of ankle and leg swelling/water retention?
veinous insufficiency lymphedema congestive heart failure kidney disease are some.
what is the definition or description of: hypertension medication?
hypertension is high blood pressure. hypertension medications are meds that lower blood pressure. meds that lower blood pressure reduce the risk of future heart disease stroke and heart failure. optimal bp is less than 120/80. if over that see your doctor.
what is acute pulmonary edema and how is it treated? does it require hospitalization and for how long?
edema is fluid build up within tissues either in the cells or between the cells. pulmonary edema is fluid build up in the tissues of the lung. the treatment is dependent on the cause. this can be due to heart failure fluid overload inflammation and others to name a few. you will need to see you doctor for a complete exam.
what is the definition or description of: aortic insufficiency?
aortic insufficiency or regurgitation is a condition where the aortic valve in the heart does not close properly allowing backflow of blood into the heart's left ventricle when the heart relaxes between contractions. this can produce a strain on the heart and lead to heart failure.
what can cause water retension?
varicose veins heart failure hypertension hypothyroidism or a high salt diet to name a few.
what are the end-stage symptoms of untreated heart failure?
extreme shortness of breath on mild exertion edema of legs facial puffiness weakness loss of appetite. etc.
whate is the causes of the chronic venuos congestion in lung?
when people use that term they usually mean passive lung congestion - left heart failure is the most common cause (there's usually a diagnosis of "congestive heart failure"). mitral stenosis and pulmonary veno-occlusive disease round out the list. most other lung constrictive processes occur at the arteriolar level or before so it's important to be very specific about the terminology here.
whate is the causes of the chronic venuos congestion in lung?
not =well treated heart failure can cause chronic venous congestion.
what is the definition or description of: mild shortness of breath?
shortness of breath (sob) could be mild moderate or severe. sob could be due to many things including anemia asthma congestive heart failure and infections like pneumonia and bronchitis. tests that may need to be considered include a chest x ray and ekg. the first step is to take a good history.
what can cause water retention in the lungs? accompanied by fever. is a 68 year male diabetic patient. pain around the ribs and chest
fluid retention in the lungs is called pulmonary edema and can often be the result of heart failure. fever could mean there is also superimposed infection such as pneumonia. given this patient's age and diabetes these symptoms are very serious and i would recommend you call his physician immediately.
wat type of acute mild chf is reversible and how?
in theory "mild chf" as a syndrome is virtually always reversible. the more important question is what is the trigger for the heart failure i. e. is it high bp is it muscle injury from an old heart attack is it poor kidney function etc. the exact cause of the heart failure is the most important bit of information to know.
went to er short of breath & leg edema. test showed bpn 331 & d dimer quant 0. 67 & normal sngm for clot in legs. 1st dr said no chf & 2nd said yes? y
bnp of 331 is considered 'borderline' and can be due to right or left heart failure; and may or may not be chf. clots neg is a good thing. edema has scores of causes.
what comes first pulmonary edema or pedal edema and why does it come first?
most heart failure is left heart failure which is weakness or inefficient pumping of the left ventricle. this causes back-up initially in the lungs which will manifest itself as pulmonary congestion or in more sever cases pulmonary edema. the high pressure is then transmitted to the right heart causing abdominal distinction and edema. pure right heart failure exits which causes edema.
what is cardiac cough?
cardiac cough is a terminology used to describe cough due to pulmonary congestion in heart failure. it produces frothy phlegm typically.
what will happen if cardiomegaly vascular conjestion& lungs filled with water are treated by a doctor of medicine? will patient survive? (after2attaks)
like congestive heart failure. this can definitely be treated and still can be worsening down the road especially if other health stressors.
what does a cardiac cough sound like?
assuming you are referring to the cough associated with heart failure (congestive heart failure) it is a persistent moist cough which is not relieved until the heart failure is adequately treated.
what are the characteristics of a cardiac cough?
a cough worse at night when lying flat in a pt with known heart failure is the classic description. but when a pt has copd or other lung problems it more difficult to tell. also pts on acei pills will be prone to cough. a full h&p is usually needed along with a cxr and labs.
what affects could using cocaine have if i have mitral valve prolapse?
mitral valve prolapse (mvp) is disorder of the mitral valve that cause the leaflets to close abnormally. this leads to abnormal stresses in the structure of the valve. cocaine causes the heart to beat much harder/faster which can cause parts of the valve (cords) to tear. this causes a sudden leak in the valve which may result in sudden heart failure. more common though are sudden heart attacks.
what is pulmonary hypertension?
high blood pressure (bp) in the lungs is called pulmonary hypertension (ph) or pulmonary arterial hypertension (pah). pah is a chronic and life-changing disease that can lead to right heart failure if left untreated.
what is a rare cardiovascular disease originating from a bacteria or virus?
maybe not rare: cardiomyopathy heart failure bacterial endocarditis valve destruction and leakage sepsis pericarditis constrictive pericarditis death.
what cough medicine is best for patients that have chf congestive heart failure?
probably best to avoid combination medicines which contain pseudoephedrine which many do. this speeds up your heart. diphenhydramine (benedryl) can dry up secretions. however it is important to understand that the cough may be due to the chf. also medications commonly used to treat chf (ace inhibitors - often end with. pril) can sometimes cause a chronic dry cough. talk to your md.
what cough medicine is best for patients that have chf congestive heart failure?
coughing is related to having fluid in the lungs. it is not going to respond to a cough suppressant or expectorant. it responds to diuretics which help to remove the fluid from the lungs.
what are the chances of congestive heart failure for teenagers?
teenagers can develop congestive heart failure though it is fortunately not common. it can occur because of a congenital defect of the heart. also certain infections (usually viral) can lead to heart failure. and certain medications can result in heart failure. however the incidence of heart failure in teenagers is very very small.
what problems can arise from extra tissue around the heart?
i am not sure what you mean by extra tissue. sometimes people can develop fluid around there heart which can decrease the heart's ability to fill. this can cause shortness of breath fatigue and ultimtely heart failure. the peicardium is the sack around the heart and it can get stiff producing the same symptoms.
what are the symptoms of heart failure?
generally left heart failure causes you to be short of breath (breathlessness). this is generally worse when you exert yourself (for example walking up hill) or when you are lying flat in bed. this shortness of breath can be associated with a cough. the main symptom of right heart failure is swollen ankles and legs (buildup of fluid) your liver may also become enlarged.
what are the symptoms of heart failure?
difficulty breathing crackles in lungs chest pain difficulty breathing when lying down lower leg swelling enlarged liver pounding heartbeat pleural effusion wheezing nocturia cough fever heart murmur distended neck veins enlarged heart swelling fatigue lethargy.
what are the symptoms of heart failure?
below are the more common symptoms but usually starts with breathlessness on exertion and decreased exercise tolerance; feeling breathless on exertion and when lying flat. waking up in the night breathless. ankle swelling. cough. fatigue. decreased exercise tolerance. confusion in elderly. nausea or abdominal pain.
what are the symptoms of heart failure?
the symptoms associated with heart failure often depend on the severity of failure. people can experience shortness of breath and fatigue. some are unable to lie flat w/o sob (orthopnea) and sometimes they suddenly wake up short of breath. they may need to urinate many times at night. frequent cough with frothy white sputum can occur. and sometimes chest pain. there are many more.
why coarctation of aorta gets worsen with vsd?
because vsd causes increased pulmonary flow pulmonary hypertension and congestive heart failure so it is an added burden in coarctation of aorta as saturated blood goes to rv and pa.
why take low dosage of blood pressure medication 12. 5 mg of hydrochloride if my blood pressure jumped around but was never high.
if your average bp is >135/85 (either number) your risk of stroke heart attack congestive heart failure and kidney disease will be lowered by lowering your bp. 12. 5 mg of hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) has been shown to be effective reduce death from all causes and has virtually no side effects for the vast of majority of people who take it. it's also dirt cheap!
what are the chances of doxorubicin damaging your heart and causing heart failure?
drugs in this class are known to have risks for inducing damage to heart muscle and consequently impair function to the point of heart failure. this risk rises with cumulative dosing depending on body size. baseline and serial assessment of heart function by echo and nuclear studies and tracking of dosing may reduce risk.
what are the possible negative outcomes for emergency iv fluid treatment for a patient with low blood pressure who also has end stage renal disease?
too aggressive iv fluids in a pt with esrd can cause fluid overload and bring to pulmonary edema congestive heart failure etc which can be letal. that is why one has to use extra caution managing low blood pressure with fluids.
what do you think about propranolol?
is a beta-blocker used to treat angina high bp heart rhythm problems migraines tremors & anxiety. caution if u have breathing disorder congestive heart failure diabetes liver/kidney/thyroid disease or depression.
what are symptoms of heart failure.?
below are the more common symptoms but usually starts with breathlessness on exertion and decreased exercise tolerance; feeling breathless on exertion and when lying flat. waking up in the night breathless. ankle swelling. cough. fatigue. decreased exercise tolerance. confusion in elderly. nausea or abdominal pain.
what are symptoms of heart failure.?
symptoms of heart failure include: shortness of breath; sometimes breathing more easily while sitting straight up or standing; tiredness weakness or dizziness; rapid or irregular heartbeat; swollen ankles legs or abdomen; and weight gain. whether some or all of these symptoms occur may depend on the severity of heart failure.
what are symptoms of heart failure.?
ankle swelling and shortness of breath are common symptoms of heart failure.
why edema of nephrotic mainly in the face while for heart failure found in the lower limp?
distribution of excess fluid in nephrotic syndrome is throughout the body due to loss of blood proteins that hold water in the vascular system. osmosis then drags water to areas of higher concentration. it may show more in the face because one can notice that most easily but is generally throughout the body. this is known as anasarca. in chf the osmotic effect is not present so gravity wins.
what causes low blood pressure and how can i make it higher?
heart failure adrenal insufficiency unstable cardiac arrthymias (abnormal rhythms) sepsis with septic shock neurogenic shock cardiogenic shock and most commonly dehydration. it depends how low it is if low normal and you are not symptomatic you shouldn't get it higher. smaller patients tend to have lower blood pressures as a whole.
what is congestive heart failure? how is it contracted what is the treatment how does it affect life expetancy?
failure of the heart muscles to pump blood effectively from the chambers to the body/lungs leading to back up of blood. caused by heart attacks (coronary artery disease) long standing hypertension/diabetes chemotherapy congenital heart defects intractable rhythm problems. life expectancy depends on underlying cause.
why in heart failure are symptoms worse on some days but other days almost normal? have bivent and ef now 38%. wouldn't heart pump the same every day.
will vary on fluid intake salt exposure physical activity and variable response to medications.
what are symptoms of heart failure?
shortness of breth with activity then at rest. patients wake up from their sleep with breathing difficulty. to be able to sleep better they keep their head elevated with multiple pillows. they get short of breath when they lay flat. edema in the legs and fluid retention is another findings. patients may get tired and have dry cough.
what are symptoms of heart failure?
below are the more common symptoms but usually starts with breathlessness on exertion and decreased exercise tolerance; feeling breathless on exertion and when lying flat. waking up in the night breathless. ankle swelling. cough. fatigue. decreased exercise tolerance. confusion in elderly. nausea or abdominal pain.
what are symptoms of heart failure?
shortness of breath fluid retention (edema) & fatigue.
what symptoms you feel if mid lad:100% stenosis. distal circumflex: 100% stenosis. all others are good. what treatment needed. do you treat with cabg.
most likely cabg. although in some selected cases angioplasty or stenting can be performed depending on the anatomy. symptoms may vary from person to person : chest pain shortness of breath jaw pain heart failure - swelling of legs.
what are the effects of taking morphine for someone with congestive heart failure?
first was it prescribed to you? we know that morphine causes histamine release and subsequent hypotheses have been made concluding that this may increase catecholamine release. this may be the link to the poor outcomes. additionally there is a lack of evidence that morphine is related to any clinically significant preload reduction.
what should i do about regular hbp readings between 130-140/95-10 even on toporol extended release 50 mg?
you should get a real bp medication toprol (metoprolol) xl is in most cases the third or fourth drug added on for bp management. it is a terrible drug in the young and causes even more side effects in the old. unless you have another reason to be on it such as previous heart attack congestive heart failure or arrhythmias; you should be changed to another class of drug altogether.
weight gain bloating in stomach and body shortness of breath bladder leaks?
salt and water retention heart failure are some of the reasons. please see a doctor.
what can be done for heart failure with ejection fraction of less then 20percent when patient is experiencing extreme fatigue?
main goal in heart failure treatment is to prevent fluid accumulation in your body. that means taking the right dose of water pill and also other medications that are proven to improve quality. make sure you check your weight weekly and if you are still gaining weight make sure you talk to your provider. avoid extra salt in your diet canned food and frozen food as they all contain a lot of salt.
what can be done for heart failure with ejection fraction of less then 20percent when patient is experiencing extreme fatigue?
and medications to help strengthen heart muscle like beta blockers acei or arbs required. . it could take awhile.
what can be done for heart failure with ejection fraction of less then 20percent when patient is experiencing extreme fatigue?
u need to be followed by u r cardiologist closely!
what can be the home remedy for low blood pressure? should we cardiologist if we face very low blood pressure and it seems everything is blackout?
heart failure adrenal insufficiency unstable cardiac arrthymias (abnormal rhythms) sepsis with septic shock orthostatic hypoten neurogenic shock cardiogenic shock and commonly dehydration can cause low blood pressure. it depends how low it is if low normal and you are not symptomatic you shouldn't get it higher. if you are blacking out you should goto the ed or see a doctor to be evaluated.
what's the risks of having very mild hbp and going out and having a few drinks?
mild hypertension carries an increased risk of heart attack stroke and heart failure. get it treated to 125/80 or lower. most data on alcoholic beverages suggest you should limit your intake to 2 modest-sized drinks/day or less and never drink and drive.
what would cause stasis in the jugular? and how likely is it to recur?
depends on what you mean by stasis -- you can get a clot in your jugular but true stasis can be caused by heart failure or a central venous stenosis. more info is needed to completely answer this question.
what is a lv systolic impairment e/f 40-45 with pericardialeffusion and rv hypertrophy of 1. 2cm can they do surgery? are there any treatments?
ejection fraction or ef of 10 to 15 is serious. this is a measure of how your heart is performing as a pump. ef should be 50 to 60% so low ef means heart failure. there are treatments medical ones first like diuretics to remove extra fluid. okay to ask your doc and your cardiologist.
what does it mean if you have recurrent blue lips?
bluish discoloration of the skin or lips is called cyanosis and is generally caused by a low oxygen level or vasoconstriction. typical causes are lung disorders or particular types of heart defects or congestive heart failure. extreme cold can cause vessel constriction leading to cyanosis. if the condition persists see your doctor.
what can cause pitting edema in my umbilical region? i also have pitting edema in my legs and ankles. iv have tests done so im sure its not heart failor
it's good you don't have heart failure but liver problems and kidney disease (and other things) can also cause pitting edema. something like this merits a physician evaluation so please see your doctor.
what happens to a patient with a coronary artery disease if he is given 1 liter of intravenous fluids in just 2 hours?
if cardiac function is normal blood pressure is controlled and there are not symptoms of congestive heart failure 1 liter of iv fluid should not cause much symptoms.
what happens to a patient with a coronary artery disease if he is given 1 liter of intravenous fluids in just 2 hours?
this is a bit more than a usual beverage and you state it is iv. most will respond by urinating. someone with a low blood pressure to rise or dehydration will feel better. if the person is already overloaded or in heart failure they may feel worse or get short of breath and need medication. for someone in shock this may not be enough fluid. so it depends on more than coronary disease.
what are the risks for an 80 yearold with chf having an aortic valve replacement?
80 is not the risk. other systemic issues? smoker anemic hypertensive obese dementia strokes if the valve is the cause of the heart failure the patient will benefit! major morbidity/mortality in 30 days about 5% or so depending.
what are the risks for an 80 yearold with chf having an aortic valve replacement?
the other major factor for peri operative risk is the heart failure. the more severe the heart failure the higher the risk.
when you start to have chf and your short of breath ef is 50 does that go down as your chf gets worse?
if u have systolic heart failure u are right. while u have diastolic heart failure u r lv ef may be preserved. many a time one may have combined pathology. check with u r cardiologist .
what risks are associated with high blood pressure?
a wide variety of conditions can develop all having to do with disruption of blood flow to an organ. some conditions are even potentially life threatening such as a heart attack or stroke. some other complication of high blood pressure include but are not limited to blindness kidney damage and enlargement of heart which can lead to heart failure.
what causes swelling of face hands and legs but lasix (furosemide) does not help it? have gained weight quickly also. voice hoarseness always. some loss of hearing
possible low thyroid could cause this. also too much salt intake. lasix (furosemide) as a rule only helps fluid accumulation with heart failure. would recommend doing tsh lab test first and seeing your physician.
what can you do to prevent congestive heart failure?
some factors that we know include coronary artery disease viruses genetic disorder pregnancy alcohol endocrine abnormalities (thyroid in particular) and many others. to prevent decompensation of the chf the biggest factor is salt. salt causes fluid retention which the weakened or stiff heart muscle can not work with. diuretics blood pressure control habitual exercise healthy wt. help.
which bad affects does salt have besides increasing blood pressure?
salt causes your body to retain fluid which may cause swelling. you will increase your risk of heart attack or stroke. salt may cause thickening of your heart muscle (hypertrophy) independent of it's effect on your blood pressure. untreated this can lead to congestive heart failure.
what risks are associated with congestive heart failure and pregnancy?
of chf and its complications such as kidney failure fetus blood supply issues sudden cardiac arrest heart attack. . <link>
why is it that adrenaline is contraindicated in heart failure?
adrenaline stimulates the heart and vascular vigorously and can trigger arrhtymias and muscle fatigue worsening the heart failure. we do use adrenaline sometimes during cardiac arrest in the hope it will get things going.
which natural diuretic can i take instead of the furosemide prescribed.?
spironolactone an aldosterone inhibitor is better. low potassium is not a side-effect. it is an anti-hypertensive drug as well. furosemide is not and it increases aldosterone. studies show that the use of furosemide in congestive heart failure does not prolong life. spironolactone does!
what disease can cause your heart and lungs both to fail?
heart failure can cause respiratory insufficiency and vice versa. both have multiple potential causes independently and together. the list of possible causes is long. if you are unfortunate enough to have these problems you need to ask your doc for specific information.
what are the ways that people go from leukemia to heart failure?
leukemias are liquid cancers. some chemotherapy agents kill leukemia cells but also permanently damage and or kill cardiac cells. some patients get cured of their leukemias to succumb later to complications of heart failure. some specially children may be a candidate to heart transplant if the leukemia has been cured over 5 years. still inmmunosuppresion can lead to lethal infections or cancer.
what is fluid layering and why is that an improvement with pulmonary edema?
fluid layering is a term applied to pleural effusions which are fluid collections outside the lung but inside the lung sack. it is good to have layering as that means the fluid is thin and the lung moves nicely. the alternative would be that the fluid is clotted or like pus and the lung is scarred or stuck so the fluid can't move. pleural effusions often occur with pneumonia or heart failure.
what is the best treatment for a congested heart?
i am assuming you mean congestive heart failure. this can be caused by several things. treatment will depend on what is the cause of the heart failure. for ex. valve disease blocked arteries high blood pressure infections can all be a source. if the problem is treated it will often help. certain medications like diuretics blood pressure meds limiting salt in diet are often used too.
what does high pulmonary pressure mean?
high blood pressure (bp) in the lungs is called pulmonary hypertension (ph) or pulmonary arterial hypertension (pah). pah is a chronic and life-changing disease that can lead to right heart failure if left untreated.
what is the meaning of left heart failure and essential mailignant hypertension?
the heart consists of four chambers left and right atriums left and right ventricles. left heart failure means the left ventricle fails to work meaning failure to pump out the blood flow to meet the body demanding. it can be caused by cardiomyopathy severe aortic stenosis or severe mitral valve regurgitation etc. essential htn is opposite to secondary htn. that means no cause found now.
what can be done to diagnose congestive heart failure when also have bronchopneumonia?
it is iften difficult to determine how much of patient's shortness of breath is related to infection or pneumonia versus that of fluid and heart failure. a lot of times it is multifactorial and a combination of both. a bnp blood level can sometimes help differentiate both processes as well as a good clinical exam cxr and history.
what is bnp? in relation to heart failure.
in general terms bnp can be interpreted as follows •a normal bnp level makes the diagnosis of heart failure unlikely (rule out test) •a high bnp level makes the diagnosis of hf very likely (rule in or confirm test) •intermediate values of bnp require careful interpretation in light of patients age (consider age-adjusted cut-off values) and co-existing conditions.
what is bnp? in relation to heart failure.
<link>
what is bnp? in relation to heart failure.
bnp is brain natriuretic protein when measured in chf patients it is elevated if the chf isn't well controlled. some data suggests it may be useful in gauging therapy for chf. sometimes it isn't clear whether a patient has chf and if the bnp is low this is evidence against chf being present. bnp also has some possible application in other conditions.
what is the cure for right side heart failure?
right sided hf is a challenge if in isolation. the most common cause is left heart failure for which treatment is established. however we dont fully understand rhf well. currently treatment is mostly diuretic therapy to maintain adequate fluid balance. one can also add digoxin and occasionally nitrates and hydralazine. one needs to look closely at the pulmonary vasculature as well.
what might make ankles swell on a male of normal weight--had a mild heart attack 2 yrs ago and takes medicine?
heart failure renal failure low proteins sedentary dependent lifestyle should get full history and exam and some testing.
what should i do for shortness of breath related to mitral valve prolapse?
if your mitral valve prolapse is that bad find out if is from arrhythmia or heart failure from the cardiologist as they are treated differently. sometimes surgery is needed.
what happens in the final days for a patient with congestive heart failure?
cardiac output failing short of breath weak sleepy everything slows down.
what are some of the medicines used to take care of rheumatic heart problem?
if acute rheumatic fever we use antistreptococcal antibiotics. once rheumatic heart disease is present we treat what the manifestation is. sometimes this is medication and sometimes it surgery. the medicines are the same as for congestive heart failure and arrhythmias.
what's congestive heart failure and anemia?
these are generally 2 independent problems. yes both anemia and congestive heart failure can occur at the same time.
what causes low blood pressure and if it all of a sudden becomes low what can you do?
there are multiple etiologies to low bp including low volume status (i. e. dehydration acute bleeding etc) versus infection (causing vasoplegia) or heart failure with low cardiac ouput. the most common caue of acutely low blood pressure can be vasovagal in nature ( a reflex that happens briefly) that can be interrupted by quickly squatting down and squeezing both hands.
what to do if i had a heart failure can i work full time?
if controlled it is categorized as per your ability to do tasks cat i to iv ask your cardiologist & get a 6minute walk test & echocardiogram results.
what is the mechanism by which the risk factors for heart attack and stroke affect you?
smoking is awful and affects heart lungs and blood vessels obesity affects most joints heart pumping requirements and encourages more sedentary inaction s leading to more weight and blood clots hyperlipidemia deposits the " rust" in your pipes and clogs them up hypertension adds to the strain on the heart muscle and it hypertrophied-thickens leading to heart failure and or aortic tears and death.
which type of cardiac problems cause shortness of breathe pressure tightness and chest pain?
the cause of your symptoms range from stress to congestive heart failure( uncommon in a 34 years old). see a cardiologist.
when i'm on the brain the heart the muscles and the body. what are symptoms of alcohol poisoning?
brain--delirium 'drunk' dumb heart--heart failure rhythm problems muscles--weak body--deteriorates good reasons for drinking lots of alcohol--you want the above. .
which holistic and alternative medicine way to take care of congestive heart failureis considered the best?
no disrespect meant but the best holistic and alternative medicine way is to go to a competent doctor and not mess around with a life threatening disease process.
what would be the average lifespan of someone with aortic stenosis?
you need t know the gradient across the stenosis. high gradients require valve replacement as the left ventricle will begin to enlarge (hypertrophy) which can eventually lead to heart failure. echocardiography and/or left ventricular angiography performed by an interventional cardiologist can define the gradient then you both can decide on best treatment options.
what would be the average lifespan of someone with aortic stenosis?
slight stenosis and minimal pressure gradient can be tolerated for a long time. example congenital bicuspid valve patients can be aged. once symptomatic aortic stenosis with syncope angina heart failure the historic data suggest less than a year survival. that's why these patients are identified by murmur echo and treated surgically.
what is the most common age at which a congenital heart disease presents by heart failure?
the most common forms of chd which is ventricular septal defects if large enough and non-restrictive would cause congestive heart failure at 1-2 months of age. there are however forms of critical congenital heart disease that would present with chf cyanosis and/or shock within hours - few days after birth.
what is the most common age at which a congenital heart disease presents by heart failure?
it depends on the congenital heart problem it could be in infancy or build up over time to chf the commonest congenital problems can be fairly benign in infancy and get worse with age the more devatating congenital problems cause immediate problems with birth.
what's congestive heart failure and why do they call it congested?
treatment depends on what the cause of the chf is. could be surgical could be medical. systolic chf is different from diastolic chf and valvar stenosis chf is different from valvar insufficiency chf. virtually all kinds have diuretic as part of the treatment.
would it be typical for congestive heart failure to cause symptoms similar to a stroke?
not at all.
would it be typical for congestive heart failure to cause symptoms similar to a stroke?
congestive heart failure (chf) is a known risk factor for stroke. the theory is a poorly "squeezing" heart in chf (low ejection fraction a measure of how effective the heart is pumping blood) increases the risk of forming small blood clots (also called thrombi) which break free from the heart and cause embolic (ischemic loss of blood flow) strokes.
what risks are associated with getting pregnant with moderate congestive heart failure?
then normal physiologic changes that occur during pregnancy to prepare you for the delivery of your baby can worse your chf symptoms and you and your baby could be at risk. consult your ob for specifics.
what can high blood pressure do if left untreated?
untreated hypertension can cause atherosclerosis myocardial infarct stroke blindness kidney damage heart failure the list goes on and on. if you have high blood pressure see your doctor and get treatment.
what should an abdominal aneurysm feel like?
most abdominal aneurysms including those of the aorta renal or splanchnic arteries produce no symptoms. if something bad is going on or about to happen they can produce abdominal or back pain depending on their location. rarely can they cause bloody vomiting diarrhea urine or even more rare than these sudden heart failure. rupture can be associated with fainting and low blood pressure.
what are congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease?
atherosclerosis develops in our coronaries and can cause damage to heart. some other diseases damage heart as well! viral rheumatic infections etc when enough muscle damage has happened then heart failure poor pumping and congestion will occur- called chf congestive heart failure.
what is the difference between left heart failure and right heart failure?
left ventricle- left heart with pulmonary edema and congestion right ventricle venous congestion dropsy peripheral edema when one side has issues the other develops issues but one set of symptoms may be first or more obvious heart attacks valvular disease viral cardiomyopathy can lead to such situations.
what is differences between right ventricular hypertrophy & right heart failure; cor pulmonale & pulmonary hypertension? do they hv the same meaning?
pulmonary hypertension leads to right ventricular hypertophy. if the hypertension is severe and prolongued the hypertrophied right ventricle begins to enlarge out of proportion to it's thickness. that is called cor pulmonale. subsequently the right ventricle begins to fail the right ventricular end diastolic pressures rise over 20mmhg the rv cardiac output gets compromised legs liver abdswell.
what is differences between right ventricular hypertrophy & right heart failure; cor pulmonale & pulmonary hypertension? do they hv the same meaning?
rvh is thickening muscle bound right ventricle sometimes due to pulmonary hypertension lung disease or left sided failure and backup. as the muscle does its very best to keep up with the needed work to pump through an ill obstructed lung circulation it may tire out= right ventricular failure or collapse. this puts stress back to the body and fluid retention and stresses the left heart.
which type of issue that could induced hypertension causes?
consistent elevated blood pressures above 140 or 90 mmhg can lead to blood vessel damage atherosclerosis and blockages. over time high blood pressure can cause heart attacks angina strokes heart failure (chf) and kidney failure. diet (weight loss and low salt) less alcohol and more exercise can reduce bp. drug treatment is safe and effective though some people need more than one drug.
what is the most effective otc diuretic/h20 pill to eliminate retained fliud caused by pitting edema?
edema can result from hypertension and heart failure; if your bp is 125/80 or less and you have no heart problem or leg vein problem then go to the following article on otc diuretics: <link> hubpages. com/hub/otc-diuretics-and-edema also restrict your salt intake to avoid edema.
what happens to the heart when a person has anorexia nervosa?
can have numerous complications. death may occur suddenly & may result from abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias) or an imbalance of electrolytes—minerals such as sodium potassium & calcium that maintain the balance of fluids in your body. heart problems may include mitral valve prolapse abnormal heart rhythms & heart failure. a person with anorexia nervosa requires medical & psychiatric care.
what are typical signs of congestive heart failure?
shortness of breath during exertion during sleep if flat at bed requiring increase head of bed at rest; rapid heart beating cough dizziness ankle swelling fatigue and weakness. chf affects around 6 millions americans. severity depend on acuteness vs chronicity of the cause of chf. consult your physicians for diagnosis cause and treatment.
what are the factors that affect the severity of left sided heart failure?
this is complicated. the degree of muscle dysfunction valve abnormalities renal function arterial and venous tone chronotropic competence coronary status hormonal status diabetes if present anemia.
what risks are associated with low and high blood pressure?
low: dizziness loss of consciousness organ shut down eg acute kidney failure death. high: none in the short run unless extremely high. in the long run: stroke congestive heart failure chronic kidney failure heart attack aortic aneurysm death.
would taking ventolin two puffs four times a day help with choking and mucous from heart failure or further effect heart failure?
ventolin will dilate the airways and that is not the problem in heart failure. if you feel congested then your water pill dose may need to be increased. ventolin will not be helpful.
would taking ventolin two puffs four times a day help with choking and mucous from heart failure or further effect heart failure?
then ventilin would not help.
what are some poisonous metals that can cause angina or heart failure?
controversial data on lead and mercury. few jama articles in early 2000.
what cause generaluzed edema without renal problem?
excluding renal problems generalized edema can be caused by many conditions: congestive heart failure liver failure[ although that usually spares the arms] lymphedema [lymphema may effect only one to all 4 limbs and the torso] hypothyroidism and low protein states including protein malnutrition and finally venous insufficiency.
what cause generaluzed edema without renal problem?
congestive heart failure tricuspid valve leakage low albumin venous stasis for lower.
what is the risk of pulmonary hypertension complicated heart failure and how i can manage?
pulm htn worsens heart failure status but is treated by aggressive management of the heart failure status. adequate decongestion with water pills and adequate afterload reduction agents should be used.
what is the risk of pulmonary hypertension complicated heart failure and how i can manage?
first need to make sure you have it then follow closely with your physician to see if you are a candidate for medical treatment.
what is the risk of pulmonary hypertension complicated heart failure and how i can manage?
i am assuming you are talking about pulmonary hypertension causing right heart failure. cause by any lung condition severe enough to damage the arteries and veins of the lungs. 2008 who updated the classification of ph. idiopathic ph refer to sporadic cases with no cause. secondary due to connective tissue dz drug and toxins hiv infection congenital heart dz severe copd interstitial lung dz.
what can it mean if i have low blood pressure?
it depends if you have symptoms or not or if you are on medications to control elevated blood pressure or if you have underlying cardiac conditions. for some underlying abnormal conditions: consider dehydration heart failure anemia low thyroid or low cortisol.
what effect does low hemoglobin have on congestive heart failure?
it can make symptoms of heart failure worse.
what effect does low hemoglobin have on congestive heart failure?
effect specially if less than 10. chronic severe anemia is a cause for chf (uncommon).
what would cause leaking through the membrane around the heart?
i think you are talking about pericarditis or pericardial effusions. fluid around the pericardium. can be cause by a variety of conditions. viral or bacterial disease after heart surgery and after heart attack lupus an rheumatoid arthritis cancer heart failure renal failure hypithyroidism etc.
will death by heart failure feel the same as death by heart attack?
heart failure with shortness of breath edema weight gain fatigue cyanosis of lips. heart pain with heart attack and may have heart failure in addition.
will death by heart failure feel the same as death by heart attack?
heart attack primarily pain or sudden death heart failure primarily trouble breathing from fluid congestion.
what can be initial signs of emphysema?
the elasticity of the lung is impaired in emphysema reducing the patient's ability to exhale resulting in wheezing and shortness of breath. early symptoms may also include daily cough particularly in the morning. recurrent episodes of bronchitis can occur as the disease progresses. severe emphysema can also cause low oxygen levels heart failure and death.
when i take my socks off i notice an indentation as well as in my wrists. like i am retaining water. do i need to worry? how can i change it?
edema can be due to many causes. it would be most common in the ankles at the end of the day due to venous insufficiency which is not heart related. edema in the upper extremities such as the wrist would be unusual and would recommend further medical evaluation. other reasons for edema are many and include heart failure kidney problems liver problems adrenal problems or medications.
what long term effects of pulmonary hypertension are common?
long term pah causes pressure overload on the right ventricle. often atrial fibrillation and right heart failure results with gradual loss of organ perfusion liver and renal failure.
what can i do if my father is dying from congestive heart failure what is going to happen?
i am very sorry about your father condition. i don't know specifics and for that reason difficult to opinion. have they try biventricular pacemaker? are he a candidate for heart transplant? there are many advances for heart failure patients and surgeons specialized in the area. good luck. i'll pray for you and your family.
what are the mitral valve prolapse side effects?
mitral valve prolapse can cause severe mitral valve regurgitation which can weaken the heart cause severe shortness of breath and heart failure. surgery remains the best option in the hands of good surgeons who can repair the valve. valve replacement carries a higher risk of mortality and complications than valve repair. it can be performed minimally invasively without opening the chest bone.
what will high blood pressure do if left untreated?
enlargement clogging of arteries heart failure heart attack stroke & death. best wishes!
what causes heart failure in a 20 year old?
heart failure in a young person can be cardiomyopathy congenital infectious valve disease it must be worked up for causation.
what is the life expectancy for someone who has an aortic insufficiency?
mild ai of minimal hemodynamic import can have a normal life span. severe ai with grossly dilated left ventricle unable to have aortic valve replacement will have more than 50% 3 yr. mortality from heart failure onset.
what occurs if you needed a heart transplant and you didn't have access to it?
possible lvad to temporize in specific situations in usa outside usa and developed countries the natural history is followed to heart failure organ failure and death.
what is the latest technology about heart transplant?
the transplant operation hasn't changed recently but there arent enough donors for all the patients with severe heart failure. so the latest technology is the assist devices (lvads) which are pumps that can serve as a bridge while waiting for transplant or even as a long-term alternative to transplant especially for older patients.
what is lisinopril used to treat?
lisinopril is a medication that is mainly used to treat high blood pressure (hbp) in adults and children in whom it’s fda-approved over 6 years of age (although it may sometimes be prescribed “off-label” to children who are younger). it is also prescribed to people who have heart failure or who have had a heart attack even if they do not have hbp to prevent future events.
what is myocardioitis and will it cause narrowing of a heart valve?
myocarditits is inflammation of the heart muscle. it is usually caused by viruses or antibodies made to viruses/bacteria. it can have variable consequences from nothing to heart failure.
what is acceptable mean blood pressure? was given reading of 9<negative_smiley>80 in dr's office.
if the pulse pressure (upper #-lower #) is truly this narrow it may be indicate of low cardiac output (e. g. congestive heart failure shock aortic valve stenosis cardiac tamponade significant blood loss). re-check your bp and keep a log. bp is relative to the individual with 120/80 accepted as normal.
what exactly is the outcome for someone 39 with congestive heart failure?
the prognosis for a patient with chf depends on the cause and severity of the chf. with modern treatment patients do much better than in the past but if the chf is severe and has a cause with poor treatment options then the prognosis can be grim.
what happens if your heart fails?
what do you mean fails. if the heart arrests you are dead. if you mean congestive heart failure then the fluid backs up in the tissues the persons energy declines the tissues suffer from hypo perfusion. the lungs become wet with fluid and the legs swell up.
what happens if your heart fails?
heart failure means the heart is not pumping adequate output to satisfy the bodies needs. usually this results in fluid retention fatigue edema and shortness of breath. there is a form called diastolic failure in which the heart pumps adequately but to do this requires high intracranial pressures and fluid retention.
what are possible reasons that my dad has tiredness and breathlessness but doctors don't know what it is?
to see a cardiologist and have extensive evaluation for coronary disease valvular disease congestive heart failure intracardiac communication congenital defects and pulmonary problems.
water is spontaneously seeping from my 80yr old mother's leg. what could be the cause & is it dangerous? she had heart valve surgery 3 times.
this is a common sign of heart failure and is quite worrisome. she should see her doctor or go to the er.
water is spontaneously seeping from my 80yr old mother's leg. what could be the cause & is it dangerous? she had heart valve surgery 3 times.
congestive heart failure or venous stasis are potentials. infection can become a issue with skin leakage and breakdown. get attention.
why can't people who have controlled congestive heart failure give blood? i received blood during open heart surgury but can't donate now?
the fear is that donating blood might convert a controlled heart faliure patient into one who is not controlled.
would it be ok to take topamax (topiramate) when someone has heart failure?
should be ok.
what are the stages of pulmonary hypertension?
pulmonary hypertension (ph) does not have stages; however the symptoms are often graded using a functional class system. class i is little to no symptoms all the way to class iv which includes shortness of breath at rest and right heart failure.
what is advanced diastolic dysfunction with pseudonormal transmitral flow?
diastolic dysfunction which means impaired relaxing or filling ability of the heart was seen on your study. it's graded 1-4 with 4 being most severe. you have grade 2. it's usu caused by high blood pressure; other more rare things too. symptoms range from mild shortness of breath to full blown heart failure or (for many) nothing at all. use it as a wake up call to take care of yourself!
what would be the effects of heart enlargement?
enlargement of the heart is a disease that weakens and enlarges your heart muscle. makes it harder for your heart to pump blood and deliver it to the rest of your body. which could can lead to heart failure.
why are my legs swollen and hurting again1 year after stroke?
your past stroke is probably not significant in your leg swelling. swelling of the leg is often caused by venous disease. the two most serious reasonsfor leg swelling are heart failure and venous drainage obstruction. obstruction can be due to a mass in the pelvis which compresses the veins draining the legs. an evaluation by a physician can sort this out.
what does this medical abbrevations "ccf" mean?
congestive cardiac failure. . more simply referred to as heart failure <link>
what can i do if my hubby has severe heart failure waiting transplant what's been the longest waiting time?
waiting times vary around the world best to ask the folks running your program.
what are the possible causes of shortness of breath?
you're taking albuterol so asthma & copd/emphysema come to mind. pleural effusion & pulmonary embolism too. bronchitis & pneumonia. heart attack & heart failure. abnormal heart rhythm. pneumothorax. if that's not enough check out <link> check w/your doc for thorough evaluation.
what is a way to tell if i have heart failure?
early signs are usually shortness of breath with exercise reduced exercise tolerance fatigue or edema. if you are really concerned see your doc and get it checked out.
with congestive heart failure or coronary ischemia would the oxygen saturation shown on the monitor at hospitals drop?
with severe or "decompensated" congestive heart failure the oxygen saturation is frequently low due to the pint of water in the lungs. as this condition is treated the oxygen level will improve. for ischemia it would be very unc.
what happens when you have a heart attack. does it stop beating. or start beating harder?
it can do variety of things. pain pallor diaphoresis shortness of breath weakness and anxiety are some items. cardiac arrythmia and arrest can occur. in heart failure with attack high blood pressure can happen.
what website where we could find journal about left sided congestive heart failure?
cardiosource. org.
what website where we could find journal about left sided congestive heart failure?
links. best wishes! <link> m. webmd. com/heart-disease/guide-heart-failure. <link>
what is 240mg furosemide prescribed for?
furosemide is a diuretic most commonly used in heart failure. but 240mg is a truly extraordinary dose. the most given at any one time is usually 80mg. if that much is required at once a different drug should be chosen to avoid serious side effects.
what are the odds of having heart failure at the age of 17?
unless you have a familial predisposition i. e. familial cardiomyopathy or come across a viral syndrome at an early age with a virus that has a predispostion to attack cardiac myocytes your overall chances in the general population are relatively low at that age.
what are the odds of having heart failure at the age of 17?
born with congenital heart disease? risk is dependent on the nature and severity of the anomaly. use of cocaine - risk is high. diabetic? risk is low but higher than average for age. received chemotherapy for cancer? risk depends on drug and dose. otherwise healthy? risk is minuscule.
what can we do to find out if my husband's heart is really that bad?
ok trhoppel you pique my curiosity! how bad is your husband's heart? why do you think it's bad? has he been tested? has he had a heart attack? has he had an echocardiogram? does have congestive heart failure? has he had a cardiac arrest? the answer to your question is to see your doctor - which i assume you've done?
what are the clinical findings of an adult with a partial avsd atrioventicular septal defect? if missed on echo would there at least be signs?
this is an endocardial cushion defect and the symptoms and signs would depend on the amount of shunting present. in severe cases there would congestive heart failure with shortness of breath and edema (fluid retention). that could take time to develop and present after a number of years. arrhythmias are common. rbbb and possibly right axis on ekg is common. cxr would show plethora.
when does pericardium cardiomyopathy start in pregnancy and how long does it last?
peripartum cardiomyopathy (ppcm) is an uncommon disorder associated with pregnancy in which the heart dilates and weakens leading to symptoms of heart failure. affected women may recover normal heart function may stabilize on medicines or may progress to severe heart failure. the duration varies.
would a cardiologist be familular with the characteristics of a vsd murmur? i understand its pretty distinct?
vsd (ventricular septal defetct) is a congenital defect in which there is an abnormal opening between the two lower heart chambers. it can be large and cause symptoms of heart failure or very small causing no problems. depending on size of the opening and blood flow the murmur (sound made by the blood flowing across the opening) can vary. a board-certified cardiologist should be familiar.
what can i do if my boyfriend told me he had an undersized heart and might die at age 25. could this be true?
explanation i can think is hypoplastic left heart syndrome. at birth severe congenital heart defect. soon after baby is born a series of reconstructive surgeries need to be drone. this babies/kids need a lifetime follow up by specialist. all patient will have a close relationship with cardiologist. complications are common. arrhythmias blood clot heart failure. few survivor after 20. not many.
what are the main causes of shortness of breath? i don't feel any other symptoms except that it feels hard and slightly heavier to breath. any idea?
there are so many causes! pulmonary disease including asthma bronchitis emphysema pneumonia and pulm. embolism. heart disease: especially heart failure and angina; systemic causes such as anemia thyroid excess and acidosis (like from diabetes. other causes include hyperventilation panic attack foreign body airway obstruction. this is the short list!
what are the main causes of shortness of breath? i don't feel any other symptoms except that it feels hard and slightly heavier to breath. any idea?
shortness of breath can be from several causes heart and lung issues are first such as asthma heart failure etc. it is can also be secondary to stomach problems such as gastritis and acid reflux. chronic nasal congestion from allergies can also cause shortness of breath. anemia is also another cause the list is endless.
what kind of infections can cause heart failure in mid twenties? scared it might happen to me every time i get sick. should i worry? no fam history.
although certain infections particular those that cause respiratory infections can also affect the function of the heart and cause a viral cardiomyopathy the chance of this occurring is quite uncommon.
what are the heart healthy food?
most fruits and vegetables are low-fat and don't have extra salt that can exacerbate heart conditions such as blood pressure or heart failure. spices can be added to foods for flavor with no additional artery-blocking cholesterol. you can also eat low-fat cuts of meat or beans as well. unprocessed foods are generally better for your heart.
what is the implication of left ventricular diastolic function consistent with abnormal relaxation stage 1. mild hypertrophy in a 57 year old?
the heart does not fill up as it should and its output decreases. this may lead to heart failure as the metabolic needs of the human body are not met: fatigue and shortness of breath. ensue. a good way to start is to control your blood pressure.
what is the difference between isosorbide mn and dn?
mononitrate has a longer half-life and higher bioavailability compared to dinitrate. mononitrate may be a better choice for angina whereas dinitrate may be better for heart failure when combined with hydralazine.
what are the different symptoms from mesothelioma and emphysema?
emphysema in smokers commonly and cause cough short of breath right heart failure and not much pain. mesothelioma and association with asbestosis and also commonly smokers. may be asymptomatic until chest wall pain or fluid compressing lung. over time they are both life threatening.
when should you go to the emergency room with high blood pressure?
when you have symptoms of hypertensive crisis: angina heart failure or encephalopathy.
what is the definition or description of: congestive heart failure?
basically it is a condition in which your heart becomes an inefficient pump. as a result fluid backs up into your lungs and also your lower extremities. there are numerous causes for this but ischemic heart disease is the most common cause. this can be diagnosed by laboratory test chest xray as well as an echo or ultrasound of your heart.
what is the differance between high blood pressure and pulmonary hypertension? my diastolic # has been typucalky around 115 w sone shortness breath.
high blood pressure in the lungs is called pulmonary hypertension (ph) or pulmonary arterial hypertension (pah). pah is a chronic and life-changing disease that can lead to right heart failure if left untreated. the diagnosis requires heart catheterization. systemic hypertension is high blood pressure in the rest of your circulation and is diagnosed with a blood pressure cuff by the doctor.
what is bilateral pulmonary edema?
this means that there is fluid in both lungs. congestive heart failure can lead to a fluid build up in both lungs but there are many other etiologies depending on the age of the patient as well as medical history. your doctor will have more clinical information to make a more precise diagnosis as well as treatment. good luck!
what are the advantages and disadvantages of heart transplant?
heart transplant is an aggressive and often effective treatment for severe heart failure when other treatment options are exhausted. a transplant can dramatically improve a patient's quality of life but the patient must take anti-rejection medication to prevent rejection of the transplanted heart by the immune system. complications of these medications include severe infections and cancer.
what is the name average life expectancy of a male 55 with congestive heart failure and end stage emphasema with aan fev of 27?
it's shorter than it ought to be. focus on the positive - take all your meds religiously. maintain good nutrition. exercise daily to the extent you're able even if it's very minimal. stay optimistic and engaged in interesting activities. no one knows (incl doctors) how long one's life will be and many people outlive what their doctors guess. concentrate on quality of life rather than longevity.
what is the name average life expectancy of a male 55 with congestive heart failure and end stage emphasema with aan fev of 27?
you can find several "life expectancy" calculators on the web. also speaking with your insurance agent. they have sophisticated mechanisms for making estimates of a person's life expectancy.
what is pitting edema and what causes it. is a bad heart?
increase in intravascular pressure like congestive heart failure decrease oncotic intravascular pressure like liver disease( cirrhosis) kidney disease( nephrotic syndrome renal failure) simple vascular venous insufficiency venous clot allergic reaction pregnancy drug induced like ibuprofen(mild). see your physician for a good history and physical exam.
what would cause a swollen left ankle with no pain usually and i can't complete a deep breath?
given the shortness of breath this is either heart failure or a dangerous deep vein thrombosis with potential pulmonary embolism. either way you need medical attention urgently.
what percentage is good heart function?
a way of defining heart function is the ejection fraction (ef). this is the percentage of blood pumped out of the heart with a heart beat. so if full heart had 100ml of blood then it it pumped out 65ml that would be ef 65%. good can be hard to define. many people can function fine with an ef down to 35-40% and medical management. if it gets below 25% then we would define that as heart failure.
what happens to someone who have mitral and tricupsid insufficiency?
it really depends on the amount of insufficiency. therre are many people with mild insufficiency that never need anything done to their valves. if it worsens then it can lead to heart failure. this can cause fatigure shortness of breath leg swelling funny heart rhythms and more. check with your doctor.
what does a heart failure mean with 30 percent working?
the ef is the ejection fraction or the percent of the volume of blood in the heart that is pumped with each beat. it is a measure of the ability of the heart to contract. it is normally 55 to 65 per cent. abnormal hearts can have much lower ejection fractions. the lower the ef the weaker the heart.
will heart failure affect my penis size?
right heart failure may cause lower body edema and cause swelling of the penis from fluid retention. this is not usually a desirable condition.
what causes lung fluid retention after heart valve surgery?
natural after trauma or surgery to maintain fluid volume. heart failure kidney issues valve issues heart lung machine and volume load.
why do people with congestive heart failure become cachectic?
cachexia is seen in more advanced and late stage heart failure and is related to neuro-endocrine inflammatory and metabolic changes associated with this disease. congestion of the gut can result in poor appetite ; poor absorption. also metabolism may be impaired due to liver congestion. tumor necrosis factor also called cachexin contributes to this process as well.
why do people with congestive heart failure become cachectic?
cache is is a late stage finding in severe chf. all patients with chf don't get cachectic.
what are signs of a bad heart?
not sure what you mean by bad heart. main symptoms with heart failure i. e. weak heart is shortness of breath swelling ; fatigue. in general heart disease may cause a variety of symptoms such as above or chest pain palpitations dizziness etc. heart disease may not cause much symptoms at all until more advanced. individuals at risk should be evaluated and managed to prevent heart disease.
what are symptoms of congestive heart failure if you had it would you be able to walk 3 miles in an hour in a mall. level. no incline no ankle swellin?
congestive heart failure patients often have shortness of breath/coughs swollen legs need more pillows at night and may notice heart palpitations. your doctor can run tests to determine if you have this condition. in the early stages you might be able to exert yourself more but as time goes on it becomes more difficult to do simple tasks like walking around a mall.
what's the standard treatment for a class 2 patient with systolic heart failure?
informative link. take care and happy holidays! <link>
what's the standard treatment for a class 2 patient with systolic heart failure?
treatment of systolic or diastolic is different. class ii refers to degree of symptoms relative to activity level independent of systolic or diastolic etiology. diastolic heart failure is treated with control of bp e. g. beta blockers. treatment of systolic heart failure would include beta blocker +/- ace inhibitor or arb +/- diuretic and possibly spironolacton.
what are the signs of lupus and heart failure?
you will be short of breath -- worse with lying down and sometimes accompanied by leg swelling.
what are some new treatments and/or drugs for congestive heart failure?
your question is too broad and difficult to answer here. please refer to the following article: <link>
what are likely causes of this heart failure and treatments?
this is a very complex topic with books written on the subject. there are different types and causes of heart failure and depending on type cause and severity treatment would vary. the most common cause of heart failure is coronary artery disease. treatment is with medications +/- revascularization.
what medications helped you if you suffer from chf congestive heart failure and diabetes?
ace inhibitors and arb agents most helpful for weak heart muscle and renal protection in diabetics as well as cardiac remodeling. this is in addition to beta blockers and diurtics.
what are the causes and consequences of having an enlarged heart?
the cause of the enlarged heart and pleural effusion is what dictates the outcome from such a situation. if you have a very weak heart with congestive heart failure and both sides of the heart malfunctioning to cause this that is very serious. if you have some more benign situation which is also possible could be less serious. you need to discuss with your doctor.
what is the survival rate for renal failure & heart failure?
more than half of those who develop chf die within 5 years of diagnosis. heart failure contributes to approximately 287 000 u. s deaths a year. adjusted rates of all-cause mortality are 6. 3–8. 2 times greater for dialysis patients than for individuals in the general population. the answer to your question is difficult to give as you did not give the age of the patient or any other information.
what are the dangers of having surgery w/ high blood pressure?
arrhythmia /heart failure bleeding during sx.
what are the dangers of having surgery w/ high blood pressure?
with uncontrolled blood pressure there are increased risks for surgery these include post op myocardial infractions strokes or congestive heart failure. the risk is higher when blood pressure is not treated or well controlled.
when serelaxin gets fda approval can this cardiovascular prescription be used as a preventative front line defense before any heart failure event takes place?
can not tell until a medication gets approved and we see what it has been shown to benefit and what risks it has and we can judge how to use it.
when serelaxin gets fda approval can this cardiovascular prescription be used as a preventative front line defense before any heart failure event takes place?
it is my understanding that serelaxin is being tested as a treatment for acute decompensated heart failure. i am unaware of a role for the prevention of heart failure.
why is it that hypoalbuminemia is present in congestive heart failure?
multiple reasons including protein loss poor synthesis dilution.
what does a swollen heart mean cause and affects and is it treatabke?
hypertension? early heart failure- yes it can be treated. treat the underlying cause!
which diuretic is best for elderly: furosemide or spironolactone?
they're apples and oranges! lasix (furosemide) is a potent diuretic. spironolactone is a weak diuretic that is usually used with furosemide or hydrochlorothiazide because it helps counteract the loss by the kidneys of potassium those diuretics cause. moreover it counteracts a hormone that make heart failure worse and that effect is independent of its diuretic effect.
what is a berlin heart and how does it work?
the berlin heart is a tiny heart pump that maintains blood flow in babies and small children with serious heart failure. tons of info on a berlin heart on the web.
what is the difference between severe pulmonary hypertension and raised jugular venous pressure? do they always coincide?
the real test called jvp was designed to determine presence of heart failure or fluid overload. the presence of high pressure against which the right ventricle has to work in pah causes the exaggerated bulging back of the tricuspid in rv systole and also causes jvp. tricuspid stenosis thus would do the same thing.
what causes blood pressure to drop to84 62 one my normal blood pressure is between 139 140/8085 i just had major back surgery and it's been really low?
there are multiple potential causes of low blood pressure in a post surgical patient. i would sure let your doctor know. potential causes could include a low blood count a reaction to your medication heart failure or even a heart attack. again i would sure let your doctor know.
what are common causes for very mild dyspnea at my age(1-2 seconds long? ) physical causes? i have anxiety but am curious as to other causes? benign?
it is not physiologic to become short of breath for 1-2 seconds. common causes of breathlessness are: asthma copd pneumonia blood clots congestive heart failure heart attack collapsed lung tumors and rare causes but all of the above cause prolonged periods of breathlessness. hyperventilation due to anxiety can be very brief. try some relaxation techniques-check this out: <link>
will fludrocortisone 0. 2mg cause heart failure?
in an individual with serious preexisting heart disease it is technically possibly. in a 22 year old virtually impossible.
what's the difference between heart disease and heart failure in the way national health stats are tracked?
in any case chf is a syndrome or set of symptoms of a weakened or diseased heart that results in various problems associated w/ insufficient oxygen to the body. so they are connected. here's an explanation: <link> hope it helps.
what is the difference between pneumothorax and pulmonary edema?
when lungs get filled with fluid is called pulmonary edema as seen in heart failure when air enters in the pleural cavity ; displaces lung ( pneumothorax ) as seen in reputes of lung bleb both conditions will interfere lung function can be lethal if untreated
what is pre hypertension?
is mildly elevated blood pressure. blood pressures range from 120-139 (systolic)/80-89 (diastolic). it can progress to high blood pressure (hypertension) if one does not make the necessary lifestyle changes such as exercising and eating healthier. both prehypertension and high blood pressure increase your risk of heart attack stroke and heart failure.
what is the treatment for someone who has severe pulmonary hypertension especially in an elderly person who has copd and pulmonary oedema? would a diuretic and frusemide spray be likely to be enough?
has to be searched. is it real pulmonary hypertension or left sided heart failure causing it or the copd. both the cardiologist and the pulmonologist should see the person and make the diagnosis and treatment of all conditions.
what heart or vascular diseases could cause low bp 100-65; on a person with normally high bp controlled with diovan (valsartan) and metoprorol?
such as acute heart attack congestive heart failure cardiac valve problems medication overdose hemorrhage sepsis adrenal insufficiency. as you can see this person should see a doctor to sort it out.
what to do if i have trouble breathing at night does vaporub help?
what steps will help depend on why you're having trouble. if you have dry heat and are getting dry swollen nasal membranes or have some allergen in your sleep environment and are getting swollen membranes; that implies some specifics. if you have congestive heart failure when lying down that's a whole different story. vaporub helps what it helps but not all causes of breathing difficulties.
what's the age range and congestive heart failure?
there is no age range for heart failure. it depends on the cause.
what's the age range and congestive heart failure?
nearly 5 million americans are currently living with congestive heart failure (chf). approximately 550 000 new cases are diagnosed in the u. s. each year. congestive heart failure affects people of all ages from children and young adults to the middle-aged and the elderly. almost 1. 4 million persons with chf are under 60 years of age. chf is present in 2 percent of persons age 40 to 59. more than 5 percent of persons age 60 to 69 have chf. chf annual incidence approaches 10 per 1 000 population after 65 years of age.
what are the side effects of overdose inderal (propranolol)?
wheezing (in people who have asthma) blurred vision double vision heart and blood irregular heartbeat lightheadedness low blood pressure heartbeat - rapid or slow heart failure shock coma confusion convulsions drowsiness excessive sweating fever nervousness weakness.
what are the symptoms of high blood pressure?
in most cases you cannot feel your elevated bp even though anecdotally people think they do. in a hypertensive crisis (bp ranging around >200/>110 more likely >240/>120) one may have confusion (encephalopathy) shortness of breath (heart failure) or chest discomfort (angina). acute renal failure which you can't feel also occurs.
what is the high side of blood pressure that you would require medicine for?
is defined as equal to or greater than 140 on the top number were equal to or greater than 90 on the bottom number. high blood pressure is usually silent without any symptoms. occasionally people to know they have high blood pressure with vague symptoms of headache or pressure. the reason we treat it is to prevent complications including heart attacks strokes heart failure and kidney failure.
with a ruptured chordae tendenineae from endocarditis and not having surgery will the mitral prolapse and regurgitation stop?
it will persist and if the mitral regurg is serious enough it will eventually cause major cardiac issues including congestive heart failure. do not avoid surgery if it is needed.
what are the defferences bet. heart failure and heart blockage?
i'm assuming by "heart blockage" you're referring to coronary artery blockage also know as coronary artery disease. coronary artery disease (cad) refers to the development of fatty deposits in the wall of the arteries in the heart muscle ultimately leading to decrease heart function. if the function is impaired enough it is called heart failure (hf). in short cad may lead to hf.
what to do if heart failure legs swelling. but only when active?
this may mean your heart failure is not under good control. your medications may need to be adjusted. talk to your provider.
worried about having heart failure since my family has history of heart problems. what can i do to avoid this?
1. avoid smoking and heavy drinking 2. regular exercise 3. regular health check up: including blood pressure and cholesterol and for diabetes. 4. eat healthy.
worried about having heart failure since my family has history of heart problems. what can i do to avoid this?
lifestyle. get regular check ups. echo screening if early onset of chf in family.
what is an infiltrated heart disease?
an infiltrative heart disease is one like hemochromatosis or sarcoidosis that causing deposition of certain particles in the heart. it can ultimately lead heart failure or even a conduction system disturbance.
what is an infiltrated heart disease?
infiltrative heart disease refers to any condition in which materials produced by abnormal cell lines or abnormal metabolic processes lay down foreign material into the heart muscle itself resulting in stiffening of the heart and leading many times to congestive heart failure or less often conduction abnormalities of the heart electrical system. classic example is multiple myeloma.
what do you advise for heart failure and breathing difficulty?
it depends upon the type of hf you have. sometimes there are reversible factors sometimes the hf is due to heart damage. heart failure is a poor term in that it is very general - kind of like using "cancer" as a term - obviously there are different treatments for lung breast skin or prostate cancer - heart failure is an analogous situation. correcting underlying causes and medical therapy.
what do you advise for heart failure-how much is too little fluid intake?
in general the tightest fluid restrictions are 1 1. 2 or 1. 5 liters a day. this is used for severe chf with low serum sodium levels. if you have pituitary problems that is a different story. often chf can be managed well with minimal if any fluid restriction once a person is stabilized on long term medical therapy.
what to do if i have high blood pressure which would not be go down and except for the pills co-diovan. can you suggest such a natural alternative?
lose weight if you're over-weight. don't smoke or use excessive alcohol. avoid salt. exercise regularly. take your medicines. there are no other "natural" alternatives. the consequences of poorly controlled htn are: renal failure stroke heart failure and heart attack. overall life expectancy is shortened.
will exercise help young people that have enlarged hearts?
en enlarged heart in a 16 year old is probably due to a congenital heart defect (you have it at birth) or possibly rheumatic heart. did you have untreated rheumatic fever is childhood? both of these conditions usually affect the valves causing congestive heart failure and 'enlarged heart. ' excercise is not likely to help and may even worsen it. u need an echocardiogram
what to do if i have heart failure can you be cured?
it depends upon the type of hf you have. sometimes there are reversible factors sometimes the hf is due to damage to the heart. heart failure is a poor term in that it is very general - kind of like using "cancer" as a term - obviously there are different treatments and outlooks for lung breast skin or prostate cancer - heart failure is an analogous situation.
would one papvr with no other abnormalities in the heart lead to right heart failure? my rv enlarged but normal function and pressure. lv normal too.
you have elevated pulmonary vascular resistance. though your rv function is normal it is enlarged. you may want to find out why you pulmonary vascular resistance is elevated. do you have have a condition that is increasing your pulmonary blood flow? are you having silent pulmonary embolism that is decreasing the size of your pulmonary vascular bed? both conditions can raise your pulmonary vascular
what do you advise if i'm worried about enlarged heart and heart transplant?
you should see a heart failure cardiologist who can best asses what's going on with your heart and what the best treatment strategy should be. heart transplantation is possible as a last step therapy.
what causes the feet to swell?
or incompetent valves injury infection gout hypertension congestive heart failure kidney disease there are many causes. .
what causes the feet to swell?
many things from simple dietary indiscretions such as an excess of salt to medical conditions including congestive heart failure kidney insufficiency or liver insufficiency can cause the feet to swell. could also be related to arthritis gout plantar fasciitis or even medications (calcium channel blockers or nsaids like naproxen). work-up is necessary.
what are the things to do for heart failure?
drivers: (a) lipoproteins (get ldl 9? mol/l) (chol wrong issue ldl-c not measured from blood & poor correlation) (b) blood glucose hba1c <5. 0% (c) resting sitting systolic bp <120 mmhg & titrate up aceon (perindopril) (if bp hi) altace (if bp low) + carvedilol as far as tolerated (too much; too fast can make feel worse short-term) & track response with echo etc.
what cardiac diseases or conditions that can be caused by anemia? how long does it take for anemia to affect the heart?
red blood cells carry oxygen to the tissues of the body. in anemia the heart tries to compensate for a lack of oxygen delivery by pumping the blood faster. if the heart cannot cope with the increased demand heart failure may occur. if the heart muscle doesn't get enough oxygen to meet its demands a heart attack can happen but only with very severe anemia or a diseased heart.
what can we do if an old man( he had diabetes and heart problems previously) doesn't have any appetite to eat?
the treatments are as numbered as the causes. sometimes medicines can help appetite. sometimes treating heart failure or confusion and help with appetite. one wonders if his gi tract is ok. he needs to be reviewed by a doctor that knows him well.
what to do if i have been put on blood pressure tablets perindopril and although my blood pressure is going down my heart?
perindopril is good for your heart. in addition to lowering your bp it lowers your risk of heart attack and congestive heart failure.
what to do if i have slight discomfort in my head sometimes. will it be related to dropsy?
dropsy is an antiquated term for congestive heart failure. (you must be reading too many 19th century novels! ). chf does not cause headaches. you don't have vapors or neurasthenia either!
what to do if i have fda warns heart risk with high doses with celexa (citalopram)?
celexa (citalopram) should not be used if you have had a recent heart attack or congestive heart failure. but the real issue is qt prolongation - if you have a family hx of this or are known to have it you should not take celexa (citalopram). bottom line: an ekg should be done on your current dose. if your qt is okay you can use celexa (citalopram) safely. as with all meds you/your doc must balance the benefits with potential risks
what to do if i have severe congestive heart failure and can't afford meds. help?
depend on where you live you could access a beta blocker ace asa and statin (medications) on the $4 list.
what to do if i have mitral stenosis. is it getting worse?
mitral stenosis as it progresses causes the left atrium to enlarge and can cause a-fib. this can lead to increased pulmonary pressures which can lead to right heart failure. so there is a drop in cardiac out put from deceased pre-load and severe pulmonary hypertension leading to edema ascites etc. the drs can do a surface echo tee right and left heart cath to evaluate and time the surgery.
why my penis won't get hard no more since i been diagnose with congestion heart failure?
the most reasonable course of caring for your current concern is ask and discuss with your treating doc about your concern after collecting the onset degree frequency & progress of poor erection with detailed sequence of event as well as the info of lifestyle drug use sex life trending etc. so together a reasonable dx may be reached and reasonable rx options may be offered. best wish.
what do you suggest if i have grade 4 aortic regurgitaion. is it okay for me to delay surgery for like 20 years or so?
you need close follow-up. the natural history of chronic severe ar does extend safely for decades but of course you don't know how long you've had it and you're 38 now. the main criteria for aortic valve replacement are ef 55 mm or any symptoms. if you wait too long it's inoperable and results in death from heart failure so stay in touch with your doctor!
what to do if i had heart failure almost two years ago and i want to use hgh to speed up the recovery process?
it's not advised.
would there be a secondary reason for sudden onset hypertension? blood tests perfect cholesterol 103 but glucose elevated at 128.
a glucose level of 128 may indicate diabetes mellitus if it is a fasting glucose. diabetics have a 75% risk of having high blood pressure. sudden onset of elevated blood pressure can occur for a number of different reasons including high physical or psychological stress low oxygen level respiratory distress or failure acute heart failure or blockage of coronary or cerebral artery.
what happens if you have high blood pressure and stop your meds could it cause feet swelling?
if your bp rises enough to cause congestive heart failure or kidney failure it could. stopping without supervision is not advised.
what happens if there is heart failure and breathing difficulty present when resting does it get worse when exercising or better instead?
shortness of breath at rest in a patient with heart failure indicate advance stage of heart failure. any extra physical work is usually not well tolerated and will make breathing worse. it is best to make patient comfortable of whatever means such as position and adjustment of medications to control fluids
what happens if you took your blood pressure pill?
taking your blood pressure pill as directed should lower your bp. your prescribing doctor should explain how high was/is your bp and risks benefits & alternatives to your specific bp pill including potential side effects. we don't like to see high bp (aka hypertension) for a long period of time as that increases risk for stroke heart failure & chronic kidney disease. monitor bp closely on pill
what happens if you are md or if you yourself suffer from chf & severe edema-please reply?
by md do you mean medical doctor or muscular dystrophy? regardless in either case get established with a heart failure specialist. i'm sure orlando has one (near you) or the cleveland clinic in weston fl is 250 miles from you.
what are 3 types of heart problems?
angina arrhythmia and congestive heart failure
what do you suggest if my father's blood pressure is 187/108. i know that's very bad. what can happen to him?
stroke congestive heart failure kidney failure angina. he needs to have it gradually controlled.
what is turmeric beneficial for? does it thin blood?
turmeric is among the healthiest of herbs. it & its constituent curcumin is an anti-inflammatory anti-oxidant thins blood supports liver detox protects against cancer & kills cancer cells protects against alzheimer's lowers cholesterol protects against heart failure etc. i recommend meriva an extract that is very well absorbed. see <link>
what is the effect of percutaneous mitral vavuloplasty on pregnant mother and foetus a tertiary care hospital experience?
it will lower your risk of congestive heart failure at the time of delivery.
what happens if someone has congestive heart failure and takes medicine how long do they have to live?
death in the first year can vary from 10% to 25% depending on the cause of the heart failure the severity of the heart dysfunction the age of the patient and the presence of co morbidities such as kidney failure diabetes etc. the natural history of heart failure which is progressive can be altered by medications and intervention such as bi ventricular pacing or resynchronization
what do you suggest if my father takes sutent (sunitinib) for stage 4 kidney cancer & also has congestive heart failure. any meds he can take for it?
advanced cancer of the kidney is hard to deal with. there is little to do although the sutent (sunitinib) is sometimes helpful. it will not cure it but can slow it down. you however need to talk to the doctor who prescribed as this can exacerbate the heart failure. the pt may want to continue the drug despite the chf. this has to be decided by pt and physician weighing the benefits. diuretics and b blockers
what do you suggest if my father takes sutent (sunitinib) for stage 4 kidney cancer & also has congestive heart failure. any meds he can take for it?
this would best require a visit with a cardiologist to review all his meds. it seems that beta blockers and diuretics would be ok with this protein kinase inhibitor.
what happens if there is a hole in heart what wil happen?
depends on the size the age of the patient whether it's new and a result of heart attack or if it's been present since birth. in the worse cases it cause congestive heart failure and occasionally can be the cause of a stroke.
what do you suggest if my chest hurts and it is hard to breath. help?
shortness of breath is a critical symptom in combination with chest discomfort. in the past the killip classification suggested significant increased illness and death when a heart attack was accompanied by worsening degrees of heart failure often manifest by trouble breathing. seek medical attention immediately!
when person heart is biting fast feet capillaries are explosed and feet uper side are swelled and his face colour is yellow what does it means?
people with yellowing of skin may indicate jaundice which could occur in acute or chronic liver injuries. the swellings of body can occur in congestive heart failure liver or kidney failure nephrotic syndrome and other causes of hypoalbuminic states.
what does a water pill do and how do i know if i need one?
"water pills" are lay terms for diuretics. these are several but all block the kidney from re- absorbing sodium which allows the body to eliminate excess salt and water. diuretics should only be used when there is evidence of salt and water overload as in heart failure kidney failure liver failure and in certain patients with high blood pressure. they have numerous side effects.
what to do if i have increasing the left atrial pressure would have what effect on pulmonary circulation?
left atrial pressure >18 mm of mercury is called "congestive heart failure". there are many many books written on the subject. the first question is "why do you have chf? " then treatment can be directed at the underlying problem.
what is the best natural treatment for mid sept emphysema an rs heart failure i don't have oxygen or bronchodilators doc refused saying they wont work?
graded exercise for respiratory patients is your best bet. you should look for a structured program supervised by an exercise physiologist. we call this "pulmonary rehabilitation". if your oxygen saturation drops to
what is the life expentancy for a heart working only 23%. is it possible to cure it anywhere in the world. plz explain. ?
survival with low ejection fraction less than 35% is less than the average survival of normal population but can be can be considerably long. it is not uncommon to live till the 70s with modern treatment including drugs and devices specially when introduced early. the onset of symptoms of heart failure shorten life expectancy. the ultimate treatment is heart transplant
what to do when am having short of breath n chest pain?
it is hard to give you advise when we don't know your age risk factor and examination. shortness of breath and chest pain can go together as in heart failure or heart attack. it can be two separate diseases that happens to go together in your case as in asthma copd together with a reflux disease. if chest pain is severe go to the er.
what are the issues involving altace?
altace is a brand ace inhibitor very good for treatment of hypertension heart failure and prevention of renal failure in patients with diabetes and hypertension (as are all ace inh). in a few patients cough can be an annoying side effect that may force the doctor to switch to an arb. very few patients may have a very serious allergic reaction and then no ace inh can be used.
what are cardiac mris sensitive in diagnosing or showing?
cardiac mri is a common test. it's used to diagnose and assess many diseases and conditions including: coronary heart disease damage caused by a heart attack heart failure heart valve problems congenital (kon-jen-ih-tal) heart defects (heart defects present at birth) pericarditis (a condition in which the membrane or sac around your heart is inflamed) cardiac tumors
what would cause excessive swelling in the feet who has heart disease and diabetes? had triple bypass over 10 yrs ago & then stints
hi. the condition you describe is volume overload and in the patient you describe either congestive heart failure and/or advanced kidney disease would be the most likely cause(s). that person should see his/her doctor for help with easing pump function and diuresis. good luck!
what would cause excessive swelling in the feet who has heart disease and diabetes? had triple bypass over 10 yrs ago & then stints
one of the possible causes for excessive swelling in the feet in someone with heart disease is a condition called congestive heart failure. other causes include peripheral vascular disease/leaky valves in the veins returning blood to your heart. whatever the cause see your doctor asap and if you are short of breath go to the er if you can't see your own md.
what does chest pain from mitral valve prolapse feel like? and is it life threatening
chest discomfort fatigue shortness of breath and anxiety are common with mitral valve prolapse. the prognosis is considered to be benign with chance of complications at about 2% per year. if no complications (like atrial fibrillation heart failure infective endocarditis or embolism - blood clots - to the brain) then not to worry. do keep your regular checkups. hope that helps.
what kind of conditions can cause constant fatigue muscle cramps excessive sweating body pain (exertion) chest pain shoulder pain and more?
there are several diseases including hyperthyroidism (excessive thyroid production) and heart failure. i would recommend you to visit your doctor and have some blood work done.
what are the causes for swollen feet? i am 73 have good health generally except for high blood pressure. i take daily walks in the morning.
venous insufficiency (when the valves in your vein no longer work) heart failure kidney failure liver failure hormonal imbalance and some medications can cause swelling of the lower extremities.
what causes a heart to get structurally damaged?
some structural heart conditions you are born with like abnormal vessels (tetralogy of fallot) or a patent foramen ovale. valves can be damaged by a bacterial infection like endocarditis. the heart muscle can enlarge due to congestive heart failure hypertension or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. viral infections (myocarditis) can alter the heart structure as well.
what will happen if pulse pressure is reduced to 20?
as in what the cause of a low/narrow pulse pressure is. extremely low pulse pressures like you mention can be related to congestive heart failure shock aortic stenosis(narrow of the major outlet valve of the heart) or other things like fluid around the heart affecting how the heart pumps(cardiac tamponade). in the end this can lead to poor blood flow of the organ systems of the body.
what to do if i have problems with water retention?
if you have water retention (wr) the treatment will be based upon its cause. common causes of wr are congestive heart failure chronic renal failure and varicose veins among others. see a physician for a physical examination to find out the cause of your wr. once a diagnosis is made a treatment plan can be formulated for you to treat the problem. good luck.
what can i do if i may have heart failure in the future?
should you get chf in your future you need to get a good doctor and work with them to treat your conditon
what is the difference between acetyl l-carnitine vs l-carnitine l tartrate? is one preferable over the other for chf?
l-carnitine is an amino acid and your body can make it from sources in your foods. neither form has been shown in reliable studies to be beneficial in congestive heart failure.
what happens to the body when you have hypertension?
short term: nothing long term: damage to the kidney heart and brain. it's the leading cause of stroke and a major cause of congestive heart failure atrial fibrillation & heart attack.
what cardiac markers are used to diagnose heart diseases?
many markers are surrogates for heart disease meaning that their combination with other symptoms and risk factors increase the chances that heart disease is present. these are things like cholesterol testing crp homocystein levels. . . etc. markers of actually heart damage include troponin types cpk and ck-mb levels. bnp and pro bnp can help diagnose heart failure. d/w cardiologist.
what is the purpose of telmisartam? which group of drugs is it in?
this is a member of the family of angiotensin receptor blockers. they are use for blood pressure heart failure and some other things.
what are the effects of having a hole in the heart?
not enough room here short inadequate answer is atrial or ventricular septal defects(holes)cause left to right shunting till bad things happen. for atrial the right heart gets overloaded and eventually pulmonary hypertension and right heart failure happen. for ventricular septal defect left heart is overloaded and left heart failure and sometimes both sided failure occurs eventually. oversimple
what are the symptoms of an enlarged heart? how is this treated?
an abnormally enlarged heart is called a dilated cardiomyopathy. symptoms are typically those of heart failure such as shortness of breath fatigue weakness fluid retention and sometimes chest pain or palpitations. you should see (and be followed by) a cardiologist if you have an abnormally enlarged heart.
what are some of the symptoms of an enlarged heart?
an abnormally enlarged heart is called a dilated cardiomyopathy. symptoms are typically those of heart failure such as shortness of breath fatigue weakness fluid retention and sometimes chest pain or palpitations. you should see (and be followed by) a cardiologist if you have an abnormally enlarged heart.
what are some genetic heart diseases?
generally there are primary genetic conditions affecting the electrical system the structure of the heart (congenital anomalies) diseases of the arteries supplying blood to the heart and conditions that result in heart failure (i. e. poor heart function). in addition there are other genetic conditions that will secondarily affect the heart. there are specific types within each category.
what is lisinopril?
the drug is an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor. it is used for hypertension and also congestive heart failure
what is inspra (eplerenone)? what is it prescribed for?
inspra (eplerenone) is a medication used for hypertension but it is also effective in patients with heart failure after a heart attack. it is in a class of medications that blocks aldosterone a mediator of sodium reabsorption into the body. inspra does have side-effects and interacts with some medications so be sure to discuss this with your doctor if you are considering this medication.
what is the typical life expectancy for someone who has an aortic valve regurgitation?
aortic regurgitation is well compensated for years usually. once congestive heart failure occurs due to aortic regurgitation survival is usually less than 5 years.
what can cause shortness of breath?
there are many causes of shortness of breath. the easiest way is to compartmentalize into three categories. 1. any problems with the heart – heart failure enlargement of the heart or valve disease of the heart. 2. any problem with the lungs – asthma copd fluid around the lungs fluid in the lungs or lung scarring to name a few. 3. everything else – deconditioning or knee/hip pain for example.
would a cardiac mri of shown a enlarged heart and cardiomyopathies? what about heart failure?
yes an mri can be used to diagnose enlarged heart cardiomyopathy and heart failure. another test that is often used to make these diagnoses is the echocardiogram. mri uses magnets to image the heart and echocardiogram uses ultrasound.
would a cardiac mri of shown a enlarged heart and cardiomyopathies? what about heart failure?
cardiac mri would give very accurate info about chamber sizes and motion/function. "heart failure" per se is a clinical diagnosis. but the cardiac mri would be able to tell you how well the chamber is squeezing and whether its functioning normally or not.
what are the symptoms of dropsy? what is the cure for it?
read this: in old times it was a term for tissue swelling often synonomous with congestive heart failure. <link>
what will happen to tissues such as the heart and brain if oxygenated blood is not delivered in a timely manner?
tissues which don't get oxygenated blood when they need it malfunction or even die. for the brain this can mean loss of consciousness or stroke. for the heart this can mean angina heart failure or infarction.
what is the best diuretic?
thiazide (hctz dyazide) are weak diuretics but a very good medicine to start treating hypertension. when stronger diuretics are needed the choice is "loop" diuretics (furosemide torsemide bumetanide) used more frequently for edema fluid overload and heart failure.
what exactly is blood pressure? why can it be dangerous?
blood pressure is the force that blood is pumped into your arteries. it is obviously important to have enough pressure to supply oxygen and other nutrients to your organs but a pressure that is too low can cause dizziness syncope or death. a pressure that is too high increased your risk for heart attack heart failure renal failure and stroke.
what is vitamin k used for? how does it help a patient with congestive heart failure?
vitamin k helps reverse the anticoagulant effect of warfarin (coumadin) when the blood is too "thin" but does not have any effect on heart failure
what are the causes of diastolic heart failure? can it be functional or is it just structural? my neurologist did a tilt table test said my heart contraction phase is longer than my relaxation phase. i never had heart pain breathlessness before a
diastolic dysfunction is secondary to defect in the relaxation of the of the heart muscle high blood pressure can cause this problem from thickened heart muscles.
what are the causes of diastolic heart failure? can it be functional or is it just structural? my neurologist did a tilt table test said my heart contraction phase is longer than my relaxation phase. i never had heart pain breathlessness before a
the causes of diastolic heart failure include anything that causes stiffness of one or both of the ventricles. hypertension with increased heart muscle narrowing of the aortic valve diabetes construction of the sac around the heart and diseases associated with infiltration of abnormal proteins or cells are causes. the significance of the tilt test is not clear an echocardiogram should be done.
what are the causes of diastolic heart failure? can it be functional or is it just structural? my neurologist did a tilt table test said my heart contraction phase is longer than my relaxation phase. i never had heart pain breathlessness before a
one of the most common causes of diastolic congestive heart failure is hypertension.
what are the causes of diastolic heart failure? can it be functional or is it just structural? my neurologist did a tilt table test said my heart contraction phase is longer than my relaxation phase. i never had heart pain breathlessness before a
diastolic dysfunction and heart failure result when the pressure required to passively fill the heart prior to cardiac contraction is too high. this can result from chronic hypertension aging and probably some hereditary factors. cardiac ischemia may also play a role. we generally treat by avoiding high bp treating obesity and sleep apnea and avoiding tachycardia.
what could you give to a patient with chf?
there are 2 types of heart failure. diastolic and systolic heart failure. one is failure to contract while other is failure to relax. equal prognosis what can you do? - lifestyle modifications are key - healthy diet no smoking low sodium are very important medications usually given - beta blockers aceinhibitor/arbs aldosterone blockers nitrates/hydralazine (better in black males)
with heart failure do you get dizzy from low blood pressure or something else?
low blood pressure can occur with heart failure whether due to medications of the heat failure itself. patients with heart failure are commonly treated with diuretics also which can cause dehydration and low blood pressure. your treating physician can best guide you
with heart failure do you get dizzy from low blood pressure or something else?
depends on a lot of factors. dizziness can be due to low or high blood pressure or due to lack of oxygen as well as to the meds you are taking. if you have new dizziness call your doc or go to the er.
why must stroke volume for both ventricles be the same?
the left and right sided chambers of your heart are like 2 pumps. all the volume from the first pump should be equal to what's used in the second. too little blood=anemia smaller sv in one pump suggests a leak (shunt) versus bad pump (heart failure). your body is always fighting to maintain a balance. when balance is disrupted that is often when you feel ill.
which medications treat chf (congestive heart failure) and diabetes?
regrettably this is not an uncommon combination. on the very positive side you doctors - endocrinologist and cardiologist - will take good care of you. of course you have a role in keeping your diabetes under control.
why does the venous pressure increase if co decreases (as in heart failure)?
complicated to explain but to oversimplify the venous pressure increases when the fluid volume in the venous beds increases and can't be pumped out adequately by the right side of the heart. there are many processes in play and when heart failure is present fluid is retained and right heart pressure may increase causing venous pressure to increase.
when is open heart surgery absolutely necessary for leaky heart valves?
when the patient begins to develop symptoms of heart failure either right or left sided which is poorly treated with medical therapy it is time for surgical intervention. surgery should be done before the changes become too severe or permanent.
why does right-sided heart failure cause jaundice?
when elevated right heart pressure causes liver congestion and dysfunction jaundice can result
why would someone with chf be on an ace inhibitor but not a diuretic?
pharmacological treatment of heart failure include: diuretics beta blockers ace inh or arb (not both) and aldosterone blockers. sometimes one is more useful than the other and depending of circumstances mds may elect to omit one or two. exercise diet weight loss are always part of treatment of chf.
which drugs for psvt are safe for someone with congestive heart failure?
in general most of us treat the chf and hope that the psvt will improve as the chf improves. part of systolic dysfunction chf rx is beta blockade which we also use for psvt. if the chf is well controlled and psvt remains a problem there are several options available and these depend on the individual person. space here doesn't allow adequate discussion
sometimes i get pains in my lungs and have difficulty breathing in bed but am fine when up what could it be?
it is necessary for such symptoms to be evaluated in clinic; a full history and a physical exam and any testing as needed should provide an answer in your specific case. in general some of the most important reasons for shortness of breath while lying down at night include congestive heart failure and obstructive sleep apnea.
saw cardiologist who said no heart failure bp stable. he said only take lisinopril 5 crestor (rosuvastatin). is that good? i'm 90. my friends take lots of pills.
if you are 90 years old and only taking two pills that is excellent. lisinopril is a great drug that lowers blood pressure protects the kidney and may help prevent strokes. crestor (rosuvastatin) is also a great medication for lowering cholesterol. you need to have periodic blood tests when you are on those drugs but i'm sure your doctors are doing those. live long & laugh much.
saw cardiologist who said no heart failure bp stable. he said only take lisinopril 5 crestor (rosuvastatin). is that good? i'm 90. my friends take lots of pills.
started on crestor (rosuvastatin) at the age of 90 i would reconsider. statins are used to reduce the risks of strokes and heart attacks and to reduce the progression of disease but their benefits take years to derive. unless your risks are very high or if your expected life span is more than a few years i don't believe you would derive much benefit and you can potentially experience unwanted side effects.
shortness of breath for couple months. just checked pulse it's 75. have been having headaches. also have history of anxiety so maybe i'm crazy. help?
it is important with concerning medical symptoms to rule out medical causes before attributing them to psychiatric cause. chronic sob is common with many medical conditions including congestive heart failure respiratory issues obesity pulmonary hypertension cardiac issues. see your pcp to have them work it up.
should i seek the attention of and urgent care clinic? was driving home from work about 10 minutes ago and had a fluttering sensation in the middle of my chest felt into the bottom of my neck. lasted approximately 45 seconds to a minute. no pain just disc
it sounds as if you were experiencing heart palpitations which some have described as "skipping a beat" "fluttering" or "beating too hard or too fast". they can occur during activity or even when sitting still or lying down. palpitations are very common. they usually aren't serious or harmful but they can be bothersome. in some patients certain events trigger these palpitations such as strong emotions vigorous physical activity medicines stimulants (such as coffee). some palpitations are symptoms of arrhythmias. arrhythmias are problems with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat. some arrhythmias are signs of heart conditions such as heart attack heart failure heart valve disease or heart muscle disease. however less than half of the people who have palpitations have arrhythmias. if you can ascribe these incidents with some factor avoid those factors such as caffeinated coffee or soft drinks. if they are associated with pain or shortness of breath please see your doctor immediately. if they become more prolonged or frequent (daily occurrence) then wearing a heart monitor (sometimes called a holter monitor) which captures all heart beats in a period of time can be used to study the nature of the palpitations.
will using lozol help get rid of my water weight?
lozol is a mild diuretic but good anti hypertensive medication. best way to diminish "water weight" is diminish the salt intake. if you truly need to get rid of fluids there are stronger diuretics that are used for heart failure or other reasons to keep fluids. all of them require very careful doctor supervision. hard to answer without knowing more about the reason behind the question.
should a heart disease patient eat salted nuts?
nuts in moderation can be good for one's diet. excess salt is harmful if one has hypertension or congestive heart failure. if your heart disease includes orthostatic hypotension salted nuts would be perfect for you! it all depends.
what kind of diet should you be on after being diagnosed with congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure can be secondary to poor pumping function of the heart or poor relaxing function of the heart. - a diet that has low sodium
should you wear diabetes socks at nite while sleeping or just during the day? swollen feet. his doctor knows and recommended diabetes socks.
"diabetes" socks are often a lot of hype. there is no clear benefit to wearing them. the point is that your socks should not make your foot swelling worse. so less elastic at the top is good. more important is to protect your feet since you may have decreased feeling in them from neuropathy. you should wear a good soled shoe or slipper in the home when you walk about. the key question is why are your feet swollen there are many possible causes including: low protein in the blood from kidney disease congestive heart failure medication (like amlodipine or actos) and sleep apnea that is not adequately treated. so first find out why your feet are swollen and don't focus on the silly socks. you can wear them any time you wear a sock however. dan weiss md cde facp pns cpi.
side effects of labetalol during pregnancy?
labetalol is given a classification of c in pregnancy meaning that there no studies in humans or animals to evaluate fetal risk vs. maternal benefit. it however is used to tret difficult to control hypertension. common side efects include dizziness nausea/vomiting fatigue shortness of breath headache. more serious reactions include slow heart rates heart failure liver toxicity
what medicines help heart disease and high blood pressure?
controlling bp with medications especially beta blockers ace inhibitors and diuretics will help to reduce risk of heart injury heart failure and heart pain (angina). some of the effects of high bp on the heart can be reversed with these bp meds and optimum control of bp (110-130/60-80). follow up with primary md and/or specialists (cardiologist and nephrologist if kidney problems).
what is the focus of a cardiologist?
heart in general and the cardiovascular system. further subspecialties include 1) heart failure 2) imaging 3) interventional 4) electrophysiology sub sub 1) structural 2) peripheral endovascular cheers! c
what could cause heart failure in a 20 year old?
however what is most likely is a viral etiology- which can cause a viral cardiomyopathy- a sluggish heart and life threatening condition.
what supplements are best for someone with congestive heart failure and hypertension?
supplements are of little or no help to treat congestive heart failure and hypertension. however there are many medications and diet interventions that are very effective in treating the symptoms and improving quality of life and survival. see your primary doctor and/or cardiologist to get on an optimum medical regimen.
what exactly is heart disease and why is it the leading cause of death in america?
heart disease includes: coronary artery disease congenital heart disease congestive heart failure cardiac rhythm abnormalities etc. more than half of heart deaths are due to coronary artery disease(cad). factors contributing to cad:family history smoking obesity cholesterol high bp diabetes lack of exercise the typical american diet. a plant based diet protects against developing cad.
can smoking contribute to a heart attack?
risk factors for heart attacks include age high blood pressure high cholesterol diabetes family history and tobacco use. among other things smoking leads to chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (copd) that forces the heart to work harder to maintain the same level of perfusion predisposing to a number of cardiomyopathies including right-sided heart failure and myocardial infarction.
can someone consume alcohol while taking flecainide?
alcohol can depress heart function (lead to congestive heart failure) and that combined with flecainide makes for a dangerous situation. in general as alcohol affects the liver and flecainide is cleared through the liver it is not a good idea to combine heavy alcohol use with flecainide. however combining low amounts of alcohol and flecainide may not be a problem.
can you describe idiopathic cardiomyopathy?
cardiomyopathy is a heart condition highlighted by a weak heart muscle causing heart failure. when no cause such as coronary disease toxins like alcohol etc are not found it is termed "idiopathic" cardiomyopathy. hope this helps!
s o b and very tired?
shortness of breath is not normal unless it is the mild temporary shortness of breath with sports activities (but even then one must be sure he is not having more shortness of breath than his sports peers have). possible reasons for shortness of breath include heart attack heart arrhythmia heart failure fluid around the heart fluid around or in the lungs asthma chestwall tightness etc.
s o b and very tired?
lack of oxygen can make you very tired. do you have an underlying lung condition? there is a myriad of problems that can cause this including heart failure emphysema sleep apnea pulmonary fibrosis just to name a few. get yourself checked.
shortness of breath tight discomfort left side of chest and back. now feel winded anytime i walk or anything like that?
symptoms of cp with shortwindedness on walking should be thoroughly evaluated. it is unlikely to have coronary artery disease in a 29 year old other conditions like congestive heart failure needs to be ruled out. or it may very well be something less sinister like musculoskeletal pain. get checked.
would you have obvious symptoms if u had life threatening myocarditis?
you can anything from fatigue to outright heart failure and arrhythmias. shortness of breath dizziness chest pain swelling can be signs.
what may develop as a result of right-sided heart failure from lung disease?
shortness of breath edema fainting and death would be the most important results.
can you have heart failure without a myocardial infarction?
yes. heart failure refers to the inability of the heart to pump properly and thus resulting in accumulation of fluid in the lung. this is called systolic heart failure. there is also diastolic or right sided heart failure and those symptoms are a bit different. myocardial infarction refers to poor blood supply to the heart resulting in the death of heart tissue. this could result in heart failure.
can you have heart failure without a myocardial infarction?
an example is uncontrolled hypertension (high blood pressure) can cause heart failure without myocardial infarction (heart attack) happening at the same time.
can you describe non-valvular atrial fibrillation?
non-valvular atrial fibrillation means that the underlying cause(s)of the atrial fibrillation is not related to rheumatic heart disease or valvular surgery rather factors such as high blood pressure diabetes congestive heart failure sleep apnea prior heart attack alcohol etc.
can you tell me the difference between heart failure from myocardial infarction?
myocardial infarction ("heart attack") is permanent injury to heart muscle from lack of blood supply. heart failure is a syndrome that can occur from many causes when the heart doesn't pump effectively. one of those causes can be myocardial infarction but chf can also occur from high blood pressure valve abnormalities rhythm disturbances infection tumor senescence and many many other causes.
can you tell me the difference between heart failure from myocardial infarction?
heart failure is a condition where the heart does not function normally causing shortness of breath ankle swelling and a variety of other symptoms. there may be 100 or more heart conditions that can result in congestive heart failure. myocardial infarction occurs when a heart artery closes resulting in damage to the muscle of the heart. this may or may not result in congestive heart failure.
can people with pacemakers consume alcohol?
in modest social amounts (1-2 drinks) it is unlikely to cause any problems. pacemakers are used because of slowing of the heart rate; most of alcohol's toxic effects on the heart (usually associated with heavy or binge drinking) involve increasing heart rate. however in people with alcohol-induced heart failure (cardiomyopathy) alcohol can worsen it. also alcohol reduces potassium & magnesium.
can atrial fibrillation cause ed?
afib cannot directly cause ed. medicines used to treat afib can impair erections and conditions associated with afib such as heart failure coronary disease also can cause ed.
can you describe glycogen cardiomyopathy?
the depostion of glycogen in the myocardium can restrict its function. it makes the heart stiff and can cause heart failure.
can atrial fibrillation be life threatening?
atrial fibrillation increase the risk of stroke which can be disabling or fatal. strokes from af tend to be worse than non-af strokes. additionally if the af causes a fast pulse for a prolonged period of time this may lead to weakening of the heart and cause heart failure. a very fast pulse even for a short period can precipitate a heart attack in someone with underlying blocked arteries.
could i be having congestive heart failure i had a pacemaker put in last year because of atrial fib i take diltiazem which was just increased to 360 mg from 240 mg for the last few days and nights i am short of breath i wake up short of breath seems t
if you are experiencing shortness of breath and difficulty breathing when laying down these are signs of congestive heart failure and more specifically left heart failure. in left heart failure fluid builds up in the lungs causing shortness of breath and difficulty breathing when laying down. fatigue is also a sign that your heart may be working too hard. see a doctor sooner than your appointment. go to the emergency room to be assessed if you can not get in right away to see your cardiologist.
could i be having congestive heart failure i had a pacemaker put in last year because of atrial fib i take diltiazem which was just increased to 360 mg from 240 mg for the last few days and nights i am short of breath i wake up short of breath seems t
if these symptoms are new and you just increased your dose it could be related. call your doctor.
can you give beta blockers to a chf patient?
long time ago the first beta blockers like propanolol were contraindicated in chf. nowadays we prefer to use more selective beta blockers for chf like coreg(r)(carvedilol) or metoprolol. poole-wilson pa swedberg k cleland jg et al. comparison of carvedilol and metoprolol on clinical outcomes in patients with chronic heart failure in the carvedilol or metoprolol european trial (comet): randomise.
can beta blockers help with pulmonary edema?
since pulmonary edema is commonly due to heart failure controlling heart failure with beta blockers is beneficial. some people can get worse and have worsening edema due to beta blockers. beta blockers will not help if edema is due to non heart related issues.
can beta blockers help with pulmonary edema?
they are of no benefit for pulmonary edema. if the pulmonary edema is caused by congestive heart failure beta blockers are used to improve the heart's performance and may indirectly improve pulmonary edema.
can i have a heart attack from too much exercise?
the heart is a muscular organ and like any muscle can be overworked to the point of failure. studies have shown that even well trained marathon runners show signs of heart failure during marathons. to avoid overexerting your heart train in a graduated fashion in moderation. work with your physician and a trainer to establish a good cardio training regimen.
swelling of the feet and hands mean heart failure right?
there are numerouis reasons for swelling of the extremities heart failure is one of them.
can a child have congestive heart failure and then have a heart attack?
if you mean mi with heart attack it is a rare combination but if you mean sudden arrhythmias leading to sudden death with congestive heart failure it is more common then mi.
can a child have congestive heart failure and then have a heart attack?
there are rare illnesses like kawasaki disease that can produce coronary aneurysms & a heart attack in a kid. for most that would go into heart failure it would be from a congenital heart defect or myocarditis. in both instances those patients would have a heart fail & develop a fatal rhythm disturbance. that has some similarities to an adult heart attack but i wouldn't use the terms that way.
can a child have congestive heart failure and then have a heart attack?
it's the other way around (such as with kawasaki disease) but yes it's possible.
can you tell me the difference between a heart failure from myocardial infarction?
hf is due to ineffective pumping action of the heart resulting in fluid overload. mi is due to blockage of one or several arteries that supply and nourish the heart. it might result in various complications.
can you tell me the difference between a heart failure from myocardial infarction?
myocardial infarction is the end-product of ischemia or reduced blood flow due to a coronary artery blockage. an infarct or heart attack results in death of that part of the heart muscle that was starved of blood. heart failure can result after an mi but otherwise is due to other medical factors which results in a weakened portion of the heart. this causes decreased pump efficiency.
can an abnormal ekg and elevated troponins indicate a possible mi event. also can pain in the arms legs hands and feet be tell tell signs of a slow but pending cardiac event about to happen? the pain value is between 7-9 thank you in advance for your t
yes very definitely. the troponin test is used to help diagnose a heart attack to detect mild to severe heart injury and to distinguish chest pain that may be due to other causes. an elevation in combination with certain changes in the electrocardiogram can be very specific for a heart attack. troponin values can remain high for 1â€”2 weeks after a heart attack. troponin may rise following strenuous exercise although without signs and symptoms of heart disease it is usually of no significance. troponin levels may also be elevated with acute or chronic conditions such as myocarditis (inflammation of heart muscle) congestive heart failure severe infections kidney disease and certain chronic inflammatory conditions of muscles and skin. some pains in the arms and less likely in the legs may be indicative of a cardiac problem. best to have this checked by your doctor as soon as you can.
can i die from atrial flutter if i ignore it?
you can die from drinking too much water but it's unlikely. untreated atrial flutter usually causes a heart rate of 150 which is annoying for most people and over several months will weaken the heart muscle leading to heart failure. blood clots can form inside the atria increasing the risk of stroke. don't mess with atrial flutter - it needs attention.
can rheumatic fever be cured?
you treat the strep infection which caused it; you give ant-iinflammatory agents (aspirin steroids etc. ) and you then give symptomatic treatment to control the complications (such as congestive heart failure etc. ). all these may modulate the disease but not necessarily cure it.
swollen feet numbness and daheria i went gp doctor said to me feet inflammation?
although inflammation can cause swelling one should ask if the swollen feet might have some other cause such as heart failure. heart failure is often the result of uncontrolled hypertension. make sure your blood pressure is less than 130 systolic (the higher number) and that your doctor has checked you for heart failure.
when i breathe in my chest feels cold and it makes me cough. is this something to do with my congestive heart failure?
more likely to be a sign of bronchospastic airways (or asthma). get a chest x-ray for starters.
what kind of high blood pressure medicine is good for elderly people?
most blood pressure (bp) medications haven't been tested per se in the elderly much less the old old say greater than 80-85yo. with that said high bp increases risk for stroke heart failure & even kidney failure. on the other hand new research warns of an increase fall risk in elderly treated w/any bp lowering drug. so the best drug for any given individual depends upon discussion w/familydoc
consumption of alcohol safe if causes tachycardia?
alcohol can cause many abnormal heart rhythms and none of them are very good for you particularly if you are older and not in shape. some of these abnormal rhythms like atrial fibrillation ("holiday heart") can be serious and even life-threatening in some people and if prolonged can increase the chance of both heart failure and stroke.
can you actually die of continued laughter (maybe by some arrhythmia? )?
although there are many anecdotal instances of death after many minutes of continued laughter i think you are safe to enjoy a good laugh (as they say. . it is the best medicine). a possible mechanism is heart failure after many minutes of sustained laughing and extremely fast heart rates possibly in the setting of a weak heart or predisposition to having an arrhythmia. check with your doctor.
can someone have a heart attack even if bmp is normal?
bmp reflects degree of heart failure and may be normal after a heart attack.
can you reverse a dilated cardiomyopathy?
some kinds of dilated cardiomyopathy improve with time such as those caused by alcohol abuse which may improve with abstinence. in other cases the standard medications for heart failure do not cure but can improve heart function and devices like an aicd help control arrythmias.
should people be more aware of cardiovascular diseases and why?
most cardiovascular disease if treated early results in less serious problems than if it is discovered later before irreversible damage has occurred like heart failure and stroke.
swelling in upper abdomen headaches and swollen feet?
the upper abdominal swelling swollen feet and headache could all be related. it merits a careful medical examination. hypertension if it exists can cause headaches and heart failure; the heart failure can cause a congested (swollen) liver and edema (swelling) of ones feet. usually one tries to explain multiple symptoms with as few causes as possible.
what dose of coversyl medication should you take for a blood pressure of 133/99?
coversyl is the british brand of perindopril which is part of the ace inhibitor class of blood pressure (bp) lowering medications. dosing is a very individual decision: different people need different doses. besides treating hypertension ace inhibitors protect the kidneys (in those w/diabetes) & heart (in those w/heart failure) & lower death rate in those who've suffered a heart attack.
would like some info on congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure (chf) is a condition in which the heart can not pump the blood normally (called systolic) or can not relax well ( diastolic ). both conditions cause similar symptoms such as shortness of breath swelling fatigue etc. heart attacks high blood pressure and/ or infections are associated with these conditions.
what is the difference between a right-sided heart failure and a left-sided heart failure?
the heart has left and right sides. either side can fail. the commonest cause of right heart failure is left heart failure. left heart can fail from heart attacks valve disease high blood pressure genetic problems viral diseases poisons. likewise the right heart. chronic lung disease can also cause right heart to fail. this is not a a complete listing but should give an idea. google for more
what blood pressure medication is most commonly prescribed?
let me take that back. if you're just curious hydrochlorothiazide (hctz) is probably the most commonly prescribed medication to treat hypertension. however that doesn't mean it's necessarily right for you. that question is best addressed by your family physician or cardiologist. in fact we would avoid hctz in someone w/gout & look for ace inhibitor in diabetes & heart failure for instance.
