what diseases become out of natural disasters?
according the world health organization diarrheal diseases can occur due to contaminated water & lack of sanitation (vibrio cholera norovirus hepatitis a & e salmonella & enterotoxigenic escherichia coli). with serious over-crowding there is increased risk for transmission of measles neisseria meningitides & acute respiratory infections. with flooding ^’ed rainfall & humidity – risk may
what do you recommend if i had this morning a hepatitis a b and tetanus shot. plus i started the typhoid vaccine orally. is that safe?
you should not have any issues apart from possibly localized pain and redness.
what to do if i had this morning a hepatitis a b and tetanus shot. plus i started the typhoid vaccine orally. is that safe?
it is totally safe to get multiple vaccines in one setting. i have given as many as 7 at one visit without any problems and with development of good immunity. make sure you get the subsequent doses at the appropriate intervals.
natural disasters can precipitate a rapid spread of disease particularly where hygiene is poor.?
according the world health organization diarrheal diseases can occur due to contaminated water & lack of sanitation (vibrio cholera norovirus hepatitis a & e salmonella & enterotoxigenic escherichia coli). with serious over-crowding there is increased risk for transmission of measles neisseria meningitides & acute respiratory infections. with flooding ^’ed rainfall & humidity – risk may
are there any interesting facts about infections during floods or after a tsunami?
according to the world health organization diseases which may ^ in the aftermath of flooding include: typhoid fever cholera leptospirosis hepatitis a malaria dengue hemorrhagic fever yellow fever & west nile fever. see: <link> who. int/hac/techguidance/ems/flood_cds/en/
what are the routine tests performed before bariatric surgery?
prior to any surgery a surgeon will want to know that you are healthy enough to undergo surgery. test that can be done include a cbc (checking for anemia infection and platelets) cmp (checking liver kidney electrolytes and blood sugar/diabetes) a pt/ptt (for bleeding/clotting issues) hepatitis a b and c and possibly an hiv test. discuss these with your family doctor and surgeon.
i have a fatty liver no diabetes not obese no high cloesteral but pain near liver area any suggestions blood works good?
i suggest u check liver enzymes also for hepatitis a b c cmv ebv check ggt as well as liver ultrasound for work up. also see a gastroenterologist.
is chronic liver disease usually caused by alcoholism and poor diet?
there are many causes of liver disease; alcohol is just one of them. infectious agents for example can cause problems such as hepatitis a b and or c. a chronically fat liver can also cause problems for the patient long-term.
is a decreased appetite common occurrence with hepatitis?
anorexia is a common symptom of acute hepatitis a b and c.
is liver disease really serious?
there are many varieties of "liver disease. " hepatitis c can cause eventual cirrhosis. alcohol excess can cause cirrhosis. some liver disease caused by hepatitis a or b or from some medications can fully resolve with no further problems. fatty liver damage can rarely progress to a serious problem. so it depends. your doctor would know best what a person's future risks may be.
is it safe to color your hair if you have fatty liver from being obese? i have lost 41 lbs from diet and my hair is falling out
if you choose a good hair salon use good chemical to color your hair then is is safe. your hair falling out canbe from reaction of chemicai fom stress or thyroid problems. you need to see doctor for evaluation. as far as fatty liver it can be from high chol hepatitis alcohol and not from obese. you need to get evaluate with this as well.
i have become a blood donor. would liver disease show in tests done on my blood prior to donation?
your blood will be tested for hepatitis and hiv. i do not believe they check your liver enzymes.
what part of the body does obesity most effect?
complications of obesity effect about every major organ system. significant increase risk of heart disease the major cause of fatty liver which can lead to steatohepatitis and cirrhosis major risk factor for type 2 diabetes sleep apnea gout reproductive organs decrease in fertility. high cholesterol & triglycerides. fat especially the viceral or deep abdominal fat causes inflammation of body.
what is the life expectancy with suspected liver disease like hep a?
hepatitis a is seldom fatal although there are some cases. once you have recovered you are immune and should have a normal life-expectancy. hep b and hep c however are another story.
what liver disease causes yellow eyes?
almost any liver issue can ultimately include jaundice or yellow eyes. this would include biliary obstruction hepatitis and cirrhosis to name a few broad areas.
if someone that works at a fast food place has hepatitis and thier bodily fluids (saliva) come into contact with your food can you contract anything?
hepatitis a is spread through feces. the other types of hepatitis are spread through blood to blood contact. saliva can certainly spread other diseases and shouldn't be coming in contact with food that people are preparing or serving.
if someone that works at a fast food place has hepatitis and thier bodily fluids (saliva) come into contact with your food can you contract anything?
it is possible.
what is the management of nash and nafld in 24 y bmi of 19. 5 healthy male no alcohol or meds or anything synthetic even home made food?
at this time nash is very hard to treat - avoiding obesity avoiding alcohol and other liver injuring disease like hepatitis are the mainstays to avoid progression. severe cases are usually good candidates for transplants.
i got a blood test and had this two enzymes elevated: alt 67 ast 60. i don't drink eat healthy and work out 5 or 6 days a week suplements?
have you been tested for hepatitis a b c? a liver ultrasound would check for liver disease such as fatty liver. a gastroenterologist is best qualified to evaluate and advise you about the cause and significance of the elevated liver enzymes.
i had hepatitis a and now my liver testes are a. l. t is 34 a. s. t is 46 from 50 so can i take the animal cuts (fat burner) for bodybuilders?
do not take any supplement until all liver associated enzymes are in the normal range two examinations in a row separated by at least one month.
my sgpt levels are high for many years it becomes normal when i start diet control and exercise and when my weight reduces but elevates with wt gain?
you likely have non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and it gets worse with weight gain as more fat gets deposited in the liver. see this site for more information on this topic. <link>
my husband is not alcoholic. few month ago he took cholestrol medicine. he is over weight. his sgot and sgpt incresed. what can i do for lowering it?
i trust that hepatitis b hepatitis c hemochromatosis wilson's autoimmune hepatitis and sensitivity to some medicine isn't the cause and that he does not have statin myopathy. the metabolic syndrome itself can raise sgot / sgpt. perhaps you can make family fitness and healthy eating a priority and help him regain his health.
my alt/ast were 110 and 63. had it again it was 87 and 70 i don't drink or do drugs but am overweight. should i even ask my doctor about it or worry?
high liver enzymes mean serious treatable disease until proved otherwise. your physician will probably test you for hepatitis b and c hemochromatosis wilson's autoimmune hepatitis and any medications you might be taking could be the cause. given this your liver may simply be asking for a more fitness-focused lifestyle; some of this is genetic as well. get your workup.
how are alcoholic liver disease and viral hepatitis different?
one is caused by alcohol and the other is caused by a virus which infects the liver hepatitis b and c are the most common causes of chronic viral hepatitis. as both of these affect and damage the liver they may have similar symptoms such a jaundice and evenually cirrhosis. the treatment however would be different. having a viral hepatitis and drinking would speed the progression of the damage.
hx of alcohol/drug abuse and hep non a/b 30+ years ago. 3 mo. history of ruq pain fullness weight loss. probable cancer cirrhosis?
alcohol and hepatitis are associated with the development of both cirrhosis and cancer in the liver. the majority of patients who develop liver cancer have cirrhosis.
can acute hepititis be a sign of liver disease even if liver enzyme levels go back to near-normal?
almost all people recover completely from hep a about 80% recover fully from hep b only about 20% recover fully from hep c. other causes of hepatitis such as cmv mono are usually transient. alcoholic hepatitis and non-alocholic steatohepatitis can lead to permanent damage .
are there differences between hepatitis c and liver disease?
there are many types of liver disease. liver cancer is one. hepatitis (inflammation of the liver) is another. toxins some drugs a variety of diseases alcohol abuse and bacterial or viral infections can all cause hepatitis. hepatitis a b c d and e viruses all cause infection and inflammation in the liver.
does xenical destroy liver and kidney? or will it just destroy the kidney if you are overdosing yourself with this drug
first xenical can cause hepatitis and elevated liver enzymes as well as liver failure and necrosis. i have not read of kidney destruction. still if tempted to overdose on it or anything else please talk to your doctor call 911 or go to an er for urgent help. xenical can also cause you to lose fat-soluble vitamins such as vit. d -- which can exacerbate depression.
a diet plan for hepatits a?
there should be no need for a special diet for hepatitis a infection.
give me a hint. what kind of hassle am i facing if doc suspects chronic liver disease? what is required to diagnose?
your doctor will choose a diagnostic test based upon what he or she thinks the diagnosis is. for example if they suspect viral hepatitis a simple blood test will suffice. sometimes a needle biopsy may be needed. ouch!
do i have to have an hiv test before a breast reduction surgery? my friend said that she needed to give blood for an hiv test before having breast reduction surgery. is this common? .
hello screening lab tests are routine and sometimes include screens for bloodborne diseases like hepatitis and hiv. like getting a mammogram before routine breast surgery consider the value of knowing that you have a bloodborne condition before you embark on a complicated surgery; if the test is positive delaying the surgery to receive the proper care can be lifesaving. dan downey md facs.
breast cancer 2 yrs ago. surgery n radiotherapy opted no meds. a wk ago ggt 58 sgot 45. ultrasound cleared hepatitis a b c neg. what should i do?
when treated what is the stage of the disease is er ;pr positive etc needed to answer the tests are not the one you do to monitor disease probably you are disease free give more information one of us will advise you.
breast cancer 2 yrs ago. surgery n radiotherapy opted no meds. a wk ago ggt 58 sgot 45. ultrasound cleared hepatitis a b c neg. what should i do?
you should go to see your oncologist and discuss with your md. what is your stage? er/pr/her2neu status? what is your cancer marker? do you take any new medication? a subsequent imaging study like ct scan may be needed. discuss further with your oncologist. if it is er+ breast cancer endocrine therapy would be recommended.
my liver gpt is 145 while the norm for my age is less than 50. got is at 76. ecg of liver shows nothing abnormal. lab tests from 2012 were ok.
it appears you have parenchymal intra hepatic paytern of elevation of liver enzymes. need hepatitis a b c and e profile autoimmune disease panel and evaluation by a hepatologist
i did liver test and i don't have hepatitis a b or c and my sgpt is 66(>45)plus i'm taking olmesartan 10mg+lercanidipine 20mg is it due to medications?
could be meds but just as likely this mild elevation in transaminase liver levels could be due to other things (like mild-moderate alcohol use or fatty infiltration of liver). fatty liver is more likely if there are elevated triglycerides or signs of insulin resistance (low hdl elevated triglycerides obesity or hga1c > 5. 6). can also be seen if associated sleep apnea.
why do i always have nose bleeds? i am a 45 year old non smoking non drinking woman of normal weight. 5'4" 129lbs size 6. i am not taking any medications or supplements of any kind. i have had no recent surgeries. i do not have high blood pressure ye
you may be perfectly normal or you may have either weakness of the blood vessels or problems with your blood that prevent them from clotting normally. conditions that lead to weakening of the lining of the blood vessels can result in easy bleeding or excessive bleeding when an injury occurs. also blood problems that result in excess bleeding can occur with liver problems like cirrhosis or hepatitis kidney failure or even genetic problems that result from problems with the normal makeup of the blood. if you have periods still are they quite heavy? have your nose evaluated by an otolaryngologist and cauterized if it bleeds heavily in the exam room consider a complete blood count blood chemisty hepatitis and liver panel. a coagulation workup by a hematologist may also be a good idea if these fail to realize the cause. it also may be you are perfectly healthy and these are normal findings. i hope this helps.
what are the different ways a person can end up with an enlarged heart?
a big heart is often a weak heart or a cardiomyopathy. these can come from coronary disease valvular disease metabolic issues like thyroid disease toxins drugs and alcohol iron overload hiv hepatitis and sometimes for unknown reasons -- just to name a few. seeing a cardiologist is recommended.
what would cause low triglycerides yet high alt liver level?
both hepatitis b and hepatitis c can be causes. excessive alcohol consumption can also do this. "fatty liver" is often associated with metabolic syndrome and elevated lipids but some people can have lower triglycerides. there are a number of other causes of hepatitis as well. you need to see your doctor for a full evaluation.
