what does it mean when your stomach hurts and feels nauseous when you drink juices or water? sign of a hiatus hernia?
your symptoms sound nonspecific. generally speaking only large hiatal (also called paraesophageal) hernias cause symptoms that may include difficulty swallowing feeling full quickly and chest pain commonly described as the sensation a balloon is trying to burst inside. an upper gi contrast study would help make this diagnosis.
what does it mean when your stomach hurts and feels nauseous when you drink juices or water? sign of a hiatus hernia?
a hiatus hernia is an anatomical defect at your diaphragm where a portion of your stomach slips into your chest. this may or may not cause any symptoms but can aggravate gerd symptoms in certain cases depending on the size and type of hernia. see your doctor for history and physical exam because many conditions can be the source of your symptoms. an egd (endoscopy) may be recommended!
i was diagnosed with hiatus hernia. symptoms- some reflux and bad breath. any solutions to bad breath? any home remedies?
baking soda is a good home ready to neutralize acid from reflux often responsible for symptoms. if the hernia is small it probably isn't responsible for the symptoms. i it's large may require surgical repair by an experienced laparoscopic surgeon.
i was diagnosed with hiatus hernia. symptoms- some reflux and bad breath. any solutions to bad breath? any home remedies?
first it is important to brush your teeth twice a day and floss regularly. (make sure to brush the tongue as well) drink lots of water. chewing sugarless gum or sugarless candy will stimulate saliva which will wash away additional debris. you can also use over the counter mouth rinses or antiseptic mouth-rinse products. hope this helped :].
what are the symptoms of a hiatus hernia and what can be done for it?
typically only large hiatal hernias cause symptoms such as difficulty swallowing chest pain feeling full quickly and fatigue due to anemia from ulcers. diagnosis can be made with an upper gi contrast study. treatment is surgical repair best done by a general or thoracic surgeon with experience in laparoscopic repair. hope this helps.
what are the symptoms of a hiatus hernia and what can be done for it?
a hiatal hernia may have no symptoms. sometimes there can be heartburn or acid reflux worse with lying down too soon after eating. rarely can have swallowing difficuties with food sticking in the esophagus. rarely associated with anemia from severe gastritis in the herniated stomach.
i have pcos a large hiatus hernia keep getting utis & kidney stones. i feel like the doctors think i'm annoying them. i go at least once a fortnight?
problems with kidney stones and utis should be both treatable and further stones and utis preventable. hiatal hernia and pcos should both respond to medical therapy. hopefully your primary care dr. is part of a group so you can receive comprehensive care. however your doctors should not feel annoyed if you have genuine problems requiring treatment.
i have pcos a large hiatus hernia keep getting utis & kidney stones. i feel like the doctors think i'm annoying them. i go at least once a fortnight?
large hiatal hernias cause problems swallowing chest pain and sometimes reflux symptoms. not related to kidneys and bladder. see a general surgeon with experience in hiatal hernia repair for more info about your situation. best of luck!
i am suffering from acid reflux(gerd) and hiatus hernia from last 5 years. my h pylori tests always come +ve. is there any way to treat it permanently?
how was the positive h. pylori test obtained? blood test can be falsely positive only reflecting antibodies from past infection. biopsy by endoscopy is most sensitive choice for testing. also a breath test for h. pylori is more accurate than blood testing to see if the infection is still active. needs a full course of multiple specific antibiotics to treat an active infection.
i am suffering from acid reflux(gerd) and hiatus hernia from last 5 years. my h pylori tests always come +ve. is there any way to treat it permanently?
if you are still having symptoms and are h pylori positive you should see your gastroenterologist and will need a course of multiple antibiotics to get rid if this organism. this should relieve your problem.
i'm age 31 & been having moderate to severe pain in center of chest & upper back that comes & goes. can my hiatal hernia cause this without heartburn?
yes it can be result of hiatus hernia without heartburn.
is there a difference between gerd and a hiatus hernia?
gerd is gastroesophageal reflux disease or reflux. you can have reflux and not a hiatal hernia. you can also have a hiatal hernia which could make your reflux worse. a hernia is an enlarged opening in the diaphragm where the esophagus comes through into the abdominal cavity. with a hh the stomach can slide up into the chest. you can have a hh without reflux. most often they go together.
is there a difference between gerd and a hiatus hernia?
a hiatus hernia is the stomach protruding up in to the chest above the bottom of the lungs. this is a common contributing factor to gerd. gerd is the presence of stomach acid for extended periods of time in the esophagus (swallowing tube) leading to symptoms such as heartburn coughing or a sensation of fullness in the throat.
i have a hiatus hernia and i have been vomiting brown liquid today is that normal? from scotland and visiting the us. need to know if i should go to a walk in clinic?
you will have to use your judgment. if you have a large hiatal hernia i would be much more concerned than of it were a small hernia. if you have he sense something is seriously wrong check it out.
i have a hiatus hernia and i have been vomiting brown liquid today is that normal? from scotland and visiting the us. need to know if i should go to a walk in clinic?
a hiatal hernia is the protrusion of the stomach above the diaphragm occasionally leading to heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux disease. sometimes untreated acid reflux can cause severe esophageal irritation (esophagitis) and stomach irritation (gastritis) which can lead to bleeding. the safest thing for you to do is to see a doctor to be examined and have your vomit checked for blood (which can look red brown or black in vomit). good luck!
i have a hiatus hernia it has been very painful. could this problem be due to stress?
hiatus hernia is a bit of stomach bulging into the chest through space (hiatus) in the diaphragm; can be small or large; may have no symptoms (pain reflux) or plenty. worsened by overweight. symptoms worsened by large meals acidy foods alcohol chocolate tobacco lying down after eating bending over tight clothes coffee. stress won't cause may worsen symptoms (if it affects lifestyle.
i have a hiatus hernia it has been very painful. could this problem be due to stress?
hiatal hernias are not caused by stress but can cause acid reflux as can stress. acid reflux causes stomach pains. pepcid (famotidine) or meds such as prilosec can help. if no help after few weeks would recommend upper endoscopy.
i have a hiatus hernia and was wondering how long recovery would be?
usually a laparoscopic hiatal hernia repair is combined with an anti-reflux procedure known as a nissen fundoplication. patients are typically back to most normal activities in about two weeks. there is also usually some difficulty swallowing for 3-6 weeks. in the end the goal is to be better than you are now so ask your surgeon what the odds are or improvement.
i have a hiatus hernia and was wondering how long recovery would be?
typically following laparoscopic repair you want to have 4-6 weeks of limited activity after which you can resume full activities. most patients are back at desk jobs within a few days. you will be on a modified diet as well during initial post operative swelling to prevent food becoming stuck in the repair. this is usually limited to less than 4 weeks.
is a hiatus hernia associated with severe pain?
a hiatal hernia is often associated with gastro-esophageal reflux disease (gerd). this can be associated with severe "heartburn" especially after bending over lying down or after eating some foods.
is a hiatus hernia associated with severe pain?
large hiatal hernias can cause severe pain in the lower chest and upper abdomen. the pain is crampy and often described as a pressure sensation like there is a balloon inside that is trying to burst. it is typically worse after meals. if this is progressive you need to see a general surgeon with experience in laparoscopic hiatal hernia repair soon to avoid complications of the hernia itself.
is it possible for a child to have a hiatus hernia?
yes but very rare in children rarely will see gerd reflux problems but infants & newborn will have dangerous congenital diaphragmatic hernias.
i have stomach cramps and i burp all the time and bring up acid i thought it was my hiatus hernia but now i'm not sure.?
reflux disease used to go for surgery few decades ago. reflux can be treated with ppis and h2 blockers. ppis such as prilosec are better. about burping i should say that patient who try to control it will improve faster.
i have stomach cramps and i burp all the time and bring up acid i thought it was my hiatus hernia but now i'm not sure.?
reflux disease may occur with or without a hiatal hernia. large hiatal hernias are potentially dangerous however. you may want to see a general or thoracic surgeon with experience in treating reflux and hiatal hernia laparoscopically for a consultation if its bad enough.
i think i have a hiatus hernia. i hs e bad headache and need painkillers is it ok to take an nsaid?
the fact that you have a hiatal hernia shouldn't prevent you from taking nsaids. if you have ulcers caused by the hiatal hernia you shouldn't. may need an endoscopy to find out. ask your doctor.
i think i have a hiatus hernia. i hs e bad headache and need painkillers is it ok to take an nsaid?
a hiatal hernia is when the top of the stomach protrudes slightly above the diaphragm into the chest cavity. it is a common cause of acid reflux. a hiatal hernia is not a contraindication to taking an nsaid (anti-inflammatory medication e. g. motrin) if you need it for a headache though realize it could cause or worsen upper gi symptoms such as heartburn indigestion or abdominal pain.
i have hiatus hernia & was diagnosed with gerd. i am using ppi for 2 years to control hyperacidity. since prolonged ppi is not good. suggest alternat?
surgery for reflux disease is a safe and durable solution for many people. there are many alternatives that depend on your age medical status and anatomy (size and type of hiatal hernia). see a general surgeon with interest and experience in gerd for further workup.
i have hiatus hernia & was diagnosed with gerd. i am using ppi for 2 years to control hyperacidity. since prolonged ppi is not good. suggest alternat?
if you are healthy i would suggest surgery. a hiatal hernia repair with a fundiplication of your stomach can potentially fix your gerd and allow you to stop using the ppi. you would need to be worked up by a surgeon or gastroenterologist first but typically young healthy patients that respond well to ppi will respond well to this surgery.
i have hypertension spinal arthritis a hiatus hernia chest pains pains in my arms underarms my kidneys and i feel nauseas. are they linked?
sounds like you need to see the doctor.
i have hypertension spinal arthritis a hiatus hernia chest pains pains in my arms underarms my kidneys and i feel nauseas. are they linked?
while large hiatal hernias can cause chest pain there is no obvious link among your symptoms. see your doctor to find out more.
i had an endoscopy done i was told i had a hiatus hernia so why do i need to go back to hospital to see a doctor. when i have to see my gp as well.
hiatus hernia is often asscoaited with acid reflux. if you have this problem you will experience indigestion or hyperacidity. this can be manged by the endoscopy doctor as well as by your gp. but you will need good antacids which your gp may be bale to handle. otherwise you can go see your gastro-enterologist who did the endoscopy because he is the specialist! .
i had an endoscopy done i was told i had a hiatus hernia so why do i need to go back to hospital to see a doctor. when i have to see my gp as well.
doctors in different specialties have different experience and knowledge base related to different problems. depending on what symptoms you have you may want an opinion from a specialist especially the one that did the endoscopy. of particular note symptoms related to hiatal hernia are often misunderstood and underestimated.
i had an endoscopy done and was told i had a hiatus hernia i was told my own doctor will see me so why does a doctor at the hospital want to see me.
be more specific. i assume they want to check on it prior to discharging you.
i had an endoscopy done and was told i had a hiatus hernia i was told my own doctor will see me so why does a doctor at the hospital want to see me.
proper protocol is if it was specialist he is bound to discuss results with you. if hospitals list may be milking insurer or you. all info should be passed on to family doc who puts it all together and is one to discuss total results and care. only in america is medicine for profit business and breakdown of ethics. so question as to why have see him over seeing family doc.
i did barium swallow test it suggested sliding hiatus hernia. abt 2 yrs later i did endoscopy at another lab which showed reflux esophagitis.
the two things you are talking about are consistant. the hernia is a weakness in the distal esophagus and this then allows acid to burn your esophagus(reflux esophagitis). for help no caffine at night no eating after dinner(3 hr. before bedtime) and medication to stop acid production.
i did barium swallow test it suggested sliding hiatus hernia. abt 2 yrs later i did endoscopy at another lab which showed reflux esophagitis.
hiatal herhia (part of stomach comes into chest through weakness in diaphram) is common. sliding means hernia reduces. commonly assoc w/backflow of stomach contents (esoph reflux) which can be irritating to lining (esophagitis). ugi is not as sensitive as endoscopy to ser changes of esophagitis. rx gendrally lifestyle diet meds (at least until hhealed) rarely surgery.
i did barium swallow test it suggested sliding hiatus hernia. abt 2 yrs later i did endoscopy at another lab which showed reflux esophagitis.
sliding hiatal hernia increases your risk of reflux. you are young enough to discuss correction of this problem with specialist. although you may not get complete relief you will save yourself from grief down the road. nissan fundo-plication is the surgery. for now take otc protonix (pantoprazole) for some relief but ultimately you will benefit from the surgery.
i have been diagnosed with a hiatus hernia and inflammation of the small intestines now had bloods done for celiac disease why is this?
because of the inflammation of your small intestines a test for celiac is in order.
i have gerd grade c and hiatus hernia. used to consume alcohol but have stopped for now. can this condition reverse itself. i run 3 km daily.
gerd worsens with factors that push stomach acid back up such as being overweight eating large meals and laying flat. . or factors that relax your lower esophagus allowing reflux like fatty foods alcohol caffeine so running to get in shape and laying off alcohol helps a lot. but the condition is being helped by your hard work not truly "reversed by itself".
i have throat ulcers right at the bottom of my throat and a 5cm hiatus hernia. it is incredibally painful to swallow what food would be ok to eat?
if this is new pain in the back of your throat a diagnosis of herpangina should be considered and an oral anesthetic offered. if this is not the case and the pain is in the throat you need subspecialist consultation (candida herpes other serious illness. ) i would be surprised if the 5 cm hiatus hernia was the cause and am concerned about overall health issues. good luck.
is there an operation for condition of a hiatus hernia and reflux?
yes there is a surgery. it involves fixing the hernia ( closing the hital opening back to normal size ) and anchoring the stomach in the abdominal cavity so it is less likely to recur. the reflux portion of the surgery is to prevent stomach contents like acid from getting in the esophagus. this can be a complex operation so be sure to talk to your dr about it and the possible complications.
i feel pressure in my sternum now when i walk i have a hiatus hernia i am also a little breathless could i have coronary artery disease also? i do n
hiatal hernias often mimick cardiac disease but it is if vital importance to first make sure the heart is ok before attributing the symptoms to the hiatal hernia.
i feel pressure in my sternum now when i walk i have a hiatus hernia i am also a little breathless could i have coronary artery disease also? i do n
hiatal hernia can ask coronary artery symptoms. it is possible to have both.
i have hiatus hernia and gerd could this cause nasal congestion and head preesure feeling?
head and neck symptoms are not likely to have any relation to stomach and esophagus issues noted.
i suffer from gord and hiatus hernia for almost 6 months now could this cause head pressure?
reflux can literally "go to your head" and cause sinus disease which may be your head pressure. also reflux may cause you to cough - even during sleep- after which you may be left with head pressure. gord can also be associated with asthma symptoms such as wheezing or shortness of breath so get it checked out.
what's the difference between a hiatus hernia and an unstable angina?
hiatal hernia is a weakness in the diaphragm muscle that may allow a portion of the stomach to go into the chest causing heartburn or esophageal reflux. unstable angina is a very serious and potentially life threatening condition of impeding heart attack or heart damage from low blood flow to the heart.
what's the difference between a hiatus hernia and an unstable angina?
unstable angina is basically an impending heart attack. a hiatus hernia is when the normal opening in the diaphragm that allows the esophagus to pass through stretches out and the stomach gets "sucked" up in to the chest. it can cause chest pain similar to angina.
is there a connection with palpitations & hiatus hernia & ibs? or is there any stomach disorders that can causes palpitations in general?
when hh is up in chest it can make irregular heartbeat more noticeable / feel-able but i am not aware that it is otherwise linked or causes them.
what are the symptoms of hiatus hernia?
bad heartburn fullness/pain in upper abdomen/chest (worse after eating) regurgitation of bitter fluid (especially when lying flat or bending over) sometimes difficulty breathing frequent pneumonias asthma attacks. severity of symptoms depends on how large the hernia is. most hiatal hernias are small and cause mild heartburn or no symptoms at all.
what are the symptoms of hiatus hernia?
the most common symptoms include heartburn and sometimes regurgitation. some epigastric discomfort may be present. if the hernia enlarges or esophagitis from reflux worsens you may feel as though food gets stuck on the way down. if the hernia continues to enlarge these symptoms plus chest discomfort and occasional difficulty taking a deep breath especially with exertion may occur.
what are the symptoms of hiatus hernia?
typically large hiatal hernias are associated with difficulty swallowing intermittent chest pain and pressure feeling full with small amounts of food and sometimes heartburn and regurgitation.
what is a hiatus hernia symptoms?
typically small hiatal hernias do not cause symptoms or may be a contributing factor to heartburn or regurgitation. large hiatal hernias (paraesophageal) can cause chest pain and pressure difficulty swallowing anemia due to bleeding ulcers and weight loss due to avoidance of food. see your doctor to find out more.
what is a hiatus hernia symptoms?
heartburn food or acid reflux into the throat or mouth food sticking in throat or chest with swallowing vomiting blood chest discomfort. small hiatal hernias may have no symptoms.
will the hiatus hernia cause your stomach to bulge out.?
the only symptom one generally gets if at all is heartburn. a ventral hernia could cause your stomach to bulge out among other things.
will the hiatus hernia cause your stomach to bulge out.?
a hiatal hernia is an enlarged natural opening in the diaphragm through which the stomach can migrate into the chest cavity. this is not something you would see on your abdominal wall. bloating however can be associated with a hiatal hernia and and can cause generalized abdominal distention.
i hv sliding hiatus hernia with gerd esophagitis la grade b duodanitis. i don't have any symptom now like heartburn etc. does it mean medication nt rqr?
i would use anti-acid producing medication until you know the damage to your esophagus heals. this means another endoscopy. if the esophagitis comes back after healing and stopping meds may need to consider an anti-reflux procedure which could be done endoscopically or surgically. hope this helps and you have a merry christmas!
i hv sliding hiatus hernia with gerd esophagitis la grade b duodanitis. i don't have any symptom now like heartburn etc. does it mean medication nt rqr?
esophagogastroduodenoscopy (egd) is a test to examine the lining of the esophagus (the tube that connects your throat to your stomach) stomach and first part of the small intestine. it is done with a small camera (flexible endoscope) that is inserted down the throat. likely would suggest this to assess for healing first before stopping daily ppi therapy. read more at www. browardgi. com.
i feel my angina is getting worse (seem to get pain more quickly on exertion). i also have a hiatus hernia. so one symptom could be masking the other.
unstable angina is very treatable. contact cardiologist stat.
i feel my angina is getting worse (seem to get pain more quickly on exertion). i also have a hiatus hernia. so one symptom could be masking the other.
your hiatal hernia is probably only likely to mask your symptoms of angina if it is very large also known as a paraesophageal hernia. this is best diagnosed with an upper g. i. contrast study.
i have a hiatus hernia after i eat palpitations feeling unwell and fall in to a deep sleep have been told dumping syndrome. is surgery the only option?
it's not dumping syndrome if your stomach is still intact and hiatal hernias do not cause that syndrome. a large hiatal her is. also called a paraesophageal hernia may be responsible for some of those symptoms. this is usually diagnosed with upper gi contrast study and upper endoscopy.
i'm suffering from cough for so many years. earlier it was said as "hiatus hernia". recently after doing endoscopy again the result "stomach ulcers".
cough could be an atypical symptom of the reflux from the hiatal hernia. consider getting an operation to repair it. the stomach ulcer usually not caused by the hiatal hernia unless you have a cameron ulcer which is associated with it.
i'm suffering from cough for so many years. earlier it was said as "hiatus hernia". recently after doing endoscopy again the result "stomach ulcers".
tzhis appears multifactorial and may need stress management in addition to medical help.
i've a hiatus hernia and a gastritis which give me terrible nausea. which food do i need to avoid absolutely?
these diagnoses can aggravate nausea through reflux and malabsorption but there is no absolute dietary restrictions. alcohol use and smoking most certainly aggravate the stomach and gi tract and can worsen your gastritis. see your doctor for followup!
i've a gastritis hiatus hernia and irr. bowel. when i eat i've strong nausea with air reflux inside mythroat. after that i'm starving. am i any probems?
this can be gastritis gerd or other your other gi issues. i would recommend seeing your pcp or gi doctor to begin work up and get you proper medications or refer you for additional testing like esophageal manometry or an ugi study or endoscopy.
i'm 16 years old and have gord/gerd and hiatus hernia what to do?
you can certainly try antiacid medication or antireflux medication but this may not work or you may require being on this medication for the rest of your life. surgery is a option to repair the hernia and wrap the stomach to prevent reflux.
i have been diagnosed with a hiatus hernia i also have sessions of rapid heat rate is there a conection?
have the cardiac issue evaluated. see a cardiologist.
i have been diagnosed with a hiatus hernia i also have sessions of rapid heat rate is there a conection?
a hiatus hernia is a mild weakening in the diaphragm musculature around the upper portion of your stomach. the most common consequence of this condition may be slight acid reflux.
what does" diminutive sliding hiatus hernia" visible in the stomach mean?
it means you have a small (dimunitive) hiatal hernia and that it is able to slide through the opening in the diaphragm to be sometimes above (wrong spot) and sometimes below (where it belongs). if they are larger they are more likely to get "stuck" above the diaphragm (and cause more symptoms).
is it possible hiatal hernia and intercostal muscle inflammation can cause occasional daytime hypopnea? seeing pulmonary monday but just curious now.
my spouse an asthmatic for 45 years recently had surgery to repair a large hiatus hernia. her asthma has cleared! -- with regurgitation of stomach contents there is occas. aspiration causing pulmonary problems.
i have been diagnosed with a 4cm hiatus hernia and dysphagia but why does my left side under my ribs hurt so much all the time?
the pain is nonspecific and unlikely to be related to the small hiatal hernia. could be costochondritis or muscle spasm. best to see your primary care provider odor a more complete evaluation. hope this helps!
i have been diagnosed with a 4cm hiatus hernia and dysphagia but why does my left side under my ribs hurt so much all the time?
you've been diagnosed with a 4 cm hiatus hernia. might i suggest asking your physician who diagnosed the hernia to make sure there is nothing else going on.
what is easy and economical method of diagnosing hiatus hernia? does gerd means high possibility of hiatus hernia.
probably the least invasive and most economical method to diagnose a hernia is an upper gi. in this test you drink contrast material and x-rays are taken as it goes down your esophagus into your stomach. a hiatal hernia can be seen. most people with a hiatal hernia have reflux but the majority of people with reflux do not have a hernia.
what is easy and economical method of diagnosing hiatus hernia? does gerd means high possibility of hiatus hernia.
gerd often does accompany a hiatal hernia but can also occur without an hh. gerd can be related to diet & eating habits. hh is usually diagnosed with a radiological study of some sort such as a barium swallow ct scan or mri. other tests might be recommended to further characterize the problem such as endoscopy ph measurements or esophageal pressure measurements.
i have had my gallbladder removed and a scope that discovered a hiatal hernia. i started taking apple cider vinegar. terrible stomach and chest pain?
the hiatus hernia may be causing reflux of stomach acid into your espohagus. vinegar will not help- it is a mild organic acid. you may benefit from over the counter ppi like pepcid- 20mg am/pm for at least 1 week and if not improved seek prompt medical examination.
i take 20mg of omeprazoldaily for hiatus hernia problems is this safe to take longterm?
a hiatal hernia simply means the stomach is a bit higher above the diaphragm than what is expected. it does not cause symptoms in and of itself. reflux of stomach acid into the foodpipe (esophageal reflux) can cause heartburn in which case use of weight loss antacids and elevation of the torso in the bed is advised. only after these fail should a drug such as omeprazole be considered.
ive got a hiatus hernia had tenderness for 5 days on under rib cage today mild burning on left still quite tender?
"quite tender"' could indicate need for meds & further diagnosis.
will a hiatus hernia go away by sticking to a specific diet and for how long?
a hernia never goes away until a surgeon repairs it. diet modifications may control the symptoms of a hiatal hernia so that you do not need medication to control the symptoms. but if you want it to go away you have to talk to a surgeon.
when my stomach swollen & heavyness then my breast also swollen & become heavy why it happenes. i have small hiatus hernia + gerd.
the symptoms you describe may be 2 differnt problems. the abdominal bloating and breast heaviness may be related to changing hormones specifically the estrogen and progesterone levels. you should see your gynecologist for an exam and to have your hormones checked. a hiatal hernia and gerd will give you symptoms of reflux-heartburn chest pain chronic cough. it does not cause breast swelling.
what can i do to take care of and remedy a hiatus hernia without medicine?
the only 'cute' is surgery. medicine just controls the acid so the reflux does less damage to the esophagus.
i have hiatus hernia acid reflux. last night i had breathless sleep and quiverings in my middle-chest area. something more than gerd?
sleep with trunk and head elevated and see if that helps
i've a hiatus hernia (very big) diagnosis was thru a endoscopy. the surgeon said i need to get a thorax ct before the surgery. is it necessary?
if your surgeon feels this study is required before s/he operates on you you need to do it. best wishes for a good result with the surgery.
i have hiatus hernia. would beetroot do me harm if i consume it often?
most people tolerate beetroot very well and it would be rare for this to make gerd worse. however if you notice that your symptoms worsened when you consume beetroot i would stop it and talk with your doctor before you proceed. otherwise beetroot is a natural very healthy food. and it's tasty too! enjoy.
what is the home treatment of hiatus hernia?
no magic treatment for hiatal hernia except surgical repair.
what is the home treatment of hiatus hernia?
home treatment is treating symptoms. do not eat 3 hours before bed time. avoid chocolate wine & sweets at night. weight loss & exercise helps. antacids or otc antacid medications (famotidine etc). sleep with head of bed slightly elevated using 2by4 board under the feet of the bed. see a doctor or gastroenterologist if no improvement. this info assumes you already have proper medical diagnosis.
what can i do to help me with hiatus hernia neck throat pain?
without seeing and examining you impossible to truly ascribe this pain to the hernia but if it is it may be related to reflux disease and something which lowers the acidity may help. the best thing to do is to go back and see the doctor who diagnosed the hiatal hernia and let them make an assessment and treat this.
what can i do to help me with hiatus hernia neck throat pain?
you are 42 have a hiatal hernia and note throat and neck pain. if you can stop smoking it would be helpful. sit up after meals do not eat close to bed time. record things that make your pain worse and avoid them. smoking overall hurts our health and will prevent food from getting through the stomach.
what is a hiatus hernia?
a hiatal hernia is the protrusion (or herniation) of the upper part of the stomach into the chest through a weakness in the diaphragm (muscle that helps you breathe) where the esophagus (tube from the mouth to the stomach) has to pass through. risk factors include: older age obesity straining and hereditary factors. treatment depends on the size and type of hiatal hernia as well as symptoms.
what is a hiatus hernia?
you have a hiatal hernia. this is a very treatable abnormality. your doctor will treat your symptoms and follow with you. if you are feeling well with medications then he/she will follow. as you age you may require more intervention. you may need a diagnostic study. you will need to manage your weight and to exercise. watch what you eat. be well.
what is a hiatus hernia?
hiatal hernia is a hernia in the diaphragm where the esophogus go through. if that opening is too big then the stomach can go up into the chest and can cause heart burn and reflux this can be treated with pepcid (famotidine) or prilosec. rare requiring surgery to repair.
i am having a 24 hour tube for checking acidity for hiatus hernia? what are the pros and cons for this? i have the swallowing assessment. thanks!
24 acid levels add understanding about the severity of your reflux and if medication is adequate to control the problem. take a friend or family with you to next appointment to ask questions. if the acid readings are severe you may benefit from a surgery in addition to the medications. be well.
is it okay to lift weights and do bodybuilding if you have a hiatal hernia with minimal symptoms?
a hiatus hernia is very common condition which usually does not cause symptoms or problems. if it does you should be evaluated by your physician and she/he can frequently treat the problem effectively according to your symptoms.
is it ok to have 1-2 shots of whiskey a month while on daily lansoprazole for hiatus hernia and gerd?
limited alcohol use will probably be ok. as long as it is not worsening your gerd symptoms. at your age you may want to consider gerd surgery as a long term cure for this problem
is it safe to take proprantheline bromide for hyperhydrosis when i have a small hiatus hernia and gerd? is it safe to take for me?
it should create any problems and may augment any antisecretory therapy acid wise which is good gerd wise.
is it safe to take proprantheline bromide for hyperhydrosis when i have a small hiatus hernia and gerd? is it safe to take for me?
the small hiatal hernia and gerd have no impact on your medication. whether it not the medication is right for you or not is a question for your doctor. you could also call the pharmacist to get more information about the drug. hope this helps!
i have chronic excess throat clearing excess burping no heartburn. gastroscopy showed sliding hiatus hernia is laryngopharyngeal reflux likely?
laryngopharygeal reflux is when a small amount of acid comes up into the throat and irritates it. it is a common cause of dry tickle cough chronic sore throat lump in the the throat post nasal drip phlegm in the throat and throat clearing. many studies show it responds best to proton pump inhibitor rx. it is possible you may have this. see an ent for evaluation.
what's d best way to find i'm having a hiatal hernia? endoscopy normal. freq belching acid reflux sensation behind breast bone bloating breathing prob.
the old fashioned barium swallow and upper gi series is an effective way to diagnose a hiatus hernia and reflux.
i am an 18 year old female and today i had a endoscopy they seen a 1 cm hiatus hernia and mild inflammation characterized by congestion (edema) and erythema found in the cardia in the gastric fundus etc. is that bad? will i need surgery?
-is that u need 2 b treated not necessarily surgery. many medications r around 2 handle this. the meds will do well 4 the stomach issues but it you have persistent trouble with the reflux &all conservative treatment does not relieve ur symptoms surgery could b in ur future
what are the symptoms of a strangulated hiatus hernia?
usually chest pain and pressure associated with the inability to eat and / or vomiting. the vomiting is frequently in the form wretching without liquid or good coming up or "dry heaves". could also be vomiting blood. this represents an emergency life threatening situation.
what are the symptoms of a strangulated hiatus hernia?
pain.
what are the symptoms of a strangulated hiatus hernia?
strangulated hiatal hernia is a life-threatening surgical emergency and must be corrected as soon as possible. symptoms can include upper abdominal and chest pain typically severe and unrelenting. nausea and vomiting are present in addition to some difficulty breathing. tachycardia and tachypnea can occur especially with gastric necrosis which may progress to sepsis and cardiovascular collapse.
i'm 50 yrs with acidity. hiatus hernia is present. is it ok to drink warm lemon water in the morning. is lemon acidic? i have eczema as well. thanks!
lemon juice does nothing to improve health (holistic myth) and may increase gastric acidity. take vit c tabs that desolve in the small bowel
i'm 50 yrs with acidity. hiatus hernia is present. is it ok to drink warm lemon water in the morning. is lemon acidic? i have eczema as well. thanks!
yes it is ok to drink lemon juice cold or hot. yes it is acidic but after absorption it is cycled in liver to become sodium bicarbonate that is alkaline. why don't you look for causes for your acidity and eczema. visit us at www. ehacstl. com to learn how we propose to treat the cause
i was diagnosed with sliding hiatus hernia 7 months back. chest pain acidity post meal fatigue sleep problems. should i walk for 10 mins after meal?
walking after a meal should help. eating small meals more frequently may also help. sleeping with your head and body on pillows will help at night. also taking acid reducers before you go to bed will help. the hiatal hernia allows for acid reflux (gastroesophageal reflux disease or gerd). the hiatal hernia is fixable if medical therapy and conservative maneuvers don't help.
i have sliding hiatus hernia and take one capsule omeprezole each night after meal till chest pain is resolved. can i take omeprezole twice a day?
this can be taken twice a day or double the dose to 40 mgs taken just at night. this will probably give you good control. that being said there are some long term issues that might arise with continued use of this drug dug as osteoporosis anemia and electrolyte abnormalities. these are not assured but occur with more frequency. at your age you might consider operative intervention if you are requiring medications to control your symptoms. you also should consider all the other maneuvers to prevent replug such as weight-loss avoiding eating before bed and avoiding fatty meals before any other treatment medical or surgical
i have sliding hiatus hernia with gerd grade c diffuse gastritis rut positive?
sounds like you need some antacid therapy to start. this should help both the gerd symptoms and the gastritis. make sure to ask if you have h. pylori infection as a cause of the gastritis. this needs to be treated with antibiotics as well. forget about the hiatal hernia unless it becomes very large. hope this helps!
i have severe lpr want to get surgery stretta or nissen which one is good for lpr?
upon whether you have a para-esophageal hiatus hernia (hernia of the stomach into the diaphtagm. stretta deals with the espohageal sphincter and is minimally invasive. the other corrects the hernia and sphincter and is via laproscope. minimally invasive but an incision is made. finally its your surgeon/gastroenterologist who should explain and make choice with you! hope this helps! good luck z
what can cause pain under left rib pain in stomache through to back already have a hiatus hernia and type 2 diabetes chronic cough with choking?
you could have pain from a pulled peri coastal muscle from coughing. the pain could be from esophagitis from reflux. if it does not respond with tincture of time with antacids and nonsteroidals you should see your physician.
what else can i do to take the pain away from a hiatus hernia? i always feel lile my chest and throat is on fire.
the sensation of "fire" is due to acid reflux with or without the hernia. to improve that sensation take anti-reflux or antacid medications many of which are otc. obesity nicotine caffeine alcohol chocolate grease mint etc. make the reflux worse. make sure you have an actual confirmed medical diagnosis of hiatal hernia and acid reflux before you start treatment.
i have a small hiatus hernia. no gerd or heartburn at all. shud i be worried? scared to go gym and do weights as it could worsen it? thanks
a small asymptomatic hiatal hernia is of no clinical significance at all. you do not need to limit your workouts in any way. if you start having symptoms of acid reflux try antacids. if they do not work then see your doctor good luck.
male 57 genetically prone to inguinal hernias does this mean i am also prone to hiatus hernia?
the mechanisms and abnormal anatomy are quite different. and thankfully the inguinal hernia is far easier to manage.
male 57 genetically prone to inguinal hernias does this mean i am also prone to hiatus hernia?
the problem is nobody knows for sure and there is currently no easy way to test for a collagen disorder.
i have a small hiatus hernia with no symptoms at all. i quit heavy lifting at the gym completely. will my hernia grow? 25yo 60kg
hiatal hernias are often incidental findings and don't usually require monitoring. it would be unlikely it would grow.
might doing crunches with additional weight cause a hiatus hernia?
it may exacerbate an existing weakness at the hiatus but i don't think it would "cause" it. a severe and sudden force however can cause traumatic hernias (car accident).
i work as a baggage handler at the airport therefore lift heavy bags. i have a small hiatus hernia no symptoms. will this grow if i carry on? thx
possible but would be very slow. yet in reality life has never been perfect and all have to live on. hence continue working as. except you can find a less physically strenuous job & switch. in 3-5 years repeat imaging study in 3-5 yrs or whenever clinical suspicion emerges. remember: life is a constantly changing & adjusting dynamic process of struggle to cope with reality certainty &.
i usually strain during bowl movements and i have a small hiatus hernia which causes me no problems. will it enlarge if i keep straining?
but probably not. but straining at stool can cause other problems such as hemorrhoids inguinal hernias etc. and chronic constipation can lead to colon problems such as diverticulosis volvulus and even cancer. you should consult with your doctor to increase your fiber intake and other measures.
i usually strain during bowl movements and i have a small hiatus hernia which causes me no problems. will it enlarge if i keep straining?
is no evidence that "straining" and raising intra-abdominal pressure is a factor in the development of a hiatus hernia! rather this is due to a defect in the diaphragm exact cause unknown! hope this helps! dr z
sir i am literally happy about hearing this answer from your side pl accept my gratitude. pl do also comment about hiatus hernia which i have been suffering from some time i always feel something touching below left ribs some sort of softball. i have tak
large hiatal hernia can cause your symptoms and can be dangerous if left untreated although the overall risk is low. diagnosis is usually made with a upper gi contrast study where you drink liquid barium and x-rays are taken. see your doctor to help order this and possibly other tests.
sir i am literally happy about hearing this answer from your side pl accept my gratitude. pl do also comment about hiatus hernia which i have been suffering from some time i always feel something touching below left ribs some sort of softball. i have tak
hiatus hernia you can not touch is deep inside hiatus hernia symptoms are due to acid entering into esophagus causing erosions & ulceration s ( gerd ) what you felt could be epigastric hernia with fat ( omentum ) stuck inside it. see your doctor.
what are the chances of my small hiatus hernia growing in the future. no symptoms at the moment. 23yo and worried. ?
small hiatal hernias are very common not dangerous and usually don't grow to be large hiatal hernias which are also known as paraesophageal hernias. don't worry about this one however. enjoy life! i hope this helps.
i have small hiatus hernia and mild gerd. iam on omeprazole 20mg twice a day. constant hunger pangs that will not go away. please advise on treatment?
consult gastroenterologist regarding fundoplication for relief of symptoms
is there anything i can do to make the hiatus hernia go away an how would i know it is that? other than the constant single hiccups all day long
thereare many an that can cause constant hiccups. so first make sure the your hh is what is causing them. to improve the problem-use an acid blocking medicine eat small volumes of food avoid foods known to aggravate reflux(eg chocolate alcohol caffeine) proper positioning at night and after meals. good resources for more thorough discussion include the mayo clinic and aafp websites.
please tell me the difference between symptoms of hiatus hernia & gallstone pain?
that only large hiatal hernias (paraesophageal type) cause problems typically difficulty eating feeling full fast and occasionally chest pain that mimicks a heart attack. gallbladder pain typically manifests just under the bottom of the breast bone and under right ribs in the front radiating to the back. not everyone is typical and your should see doctor to help sort it out.
please tell me the difference between symptoms of hiatus hernia & gallstone pain?
hh usually does not lead to pain predominant symptom is reflux. biliary colic gallbladder pain usually happens after eating can be sharp in the right upper abdomen and can cause back pain. usually described as worse than child birth.
pain is approximately half an inch below ribs on my left side. gi doctor said i have hiatal hernia. nothing seems to help it does come and go.
hiatus hernia if small rarely causes pain if it is large surgery should be considered. this pain is very often muscular.
so is it possible to completely get rid of gerd and hiatus hernia for a 22 year old so that the system becomes as it used to be?
there are surgical procedures that can improve the condition.
stomach issues for past 5 months she has lost 5 stone ct showed glands near liver? scope showed hiatus hernia + for h pylori cud this b cancer?
i'm not sure. not enough clear information. please call ur pcp.
the past year everytime i eat doesn't matter what it is i get severe indigestion & diarrhea straight after i have a hiatus hernia is this the cause?
your symptoms are not likely from a hiatal hernia. typical hhs symptoms are heartburn and regurgitation. indigestion could be a sign of dyspepsia or ulcers. a thorough evaluation is needed to help determine the cause of your symptoms.
just had a gastroscopy and got diagnosed with a large hiatus hernia. what should i do? i get severe indigestion everyday & heartburn.
out of characters. ! large hiatal hernias sometimes require surgical repair depending on how severe your symptoms are despite appropriate treatment and also these suckers can sometimes twist in your chest and cause an acute esophageal/gastric obstruction. please keep in touch with your doctor particularly if any treatment use is not producing 100% symptom resolution.
just had a gastroscopy and got diagnosed with a large hiatus hernia. what should i do? i get severe indigestion everyday & heartburn.
hiatal hernia is a very common condition and top cause of reflux(heartburn). not everyone with a hiatal hernia will always reflux though. having said that acid will tend to hit the esophagus and cause inflammation. your endoscopy should have shown if there are esophageal changes consistent with esophagitis from reflux and your doctor will be able to treat this.
just had a gastroscopy and they said i had a large hiatus hernia it is at least 8cm and they said i had a fever. what should i do? will i need an op?
a large hiatus hernia can be treated medically if there are no pathologic changes in the esophagus but may require surgery depending on the symptoms and outcome of tests. this can be done both from above or below the diaphragm. fever is another problem and the obvious question is whether or not this is related to the first issue or a second independent problem.
just had a gastroscopy and they said i had a large hiatus hernia it is at least 8cm and they said i had a fever. what should i do? will i need an op?
only the physician who is treating you can answer the question of whether surgery will be necessary. if the fever is related to the hiatus hernia or the gastroscopy you may have a significant complication of the procedure. hope you are better soon.
keep getting sharp severe chest and left shoulder pains been about 4 month. is it my large hiatus hernia? i'm only 22 could it be angina?
it is very unusual for a 22 year old to have a large hiatal hernia but if in fact you do it is certainly the probable cause of your symptoms. angina is almost unheard of in a 22 year old but you should see your doctor.
keep getting sharp severe chest and left shoulder pains been about 4 month. is it my large hiatus hernia? i'm only 22 could it be angina?
need consult ion with an orthopedic md and other causes needs to be ruled out. rarely it can be due to heart disease or hiatal hernia.
small hiatus hernia. no gerd heartburn. what are the chances of this gettin bigger with time and give me symptoms? anything to do to prevent hh? ty
many people have hiatal hernias without ever having problems. anything that increases your intraabdominal pressure a lot such as doing strenuous activity or coughing a lot or obesity can cause the hernia to get bigger. decreasing those activities will reduce your risk of symptoms. once you have the hernia you can't prevent it. it won't resolve on its own.
could a little hiatus hernia cause prolonged chest pain shortness of breath palpitations diarrea? did a catheterism all was ok but chest pain continues
a hh may cause some chest pain as the small intestine pushes up and "herniates" through your diaphragm near the cardiac area thus causing "heart burn" and chest discomfort. anxiety associated with this can cause many of the other symptoms as well. keep getting evaluated and treated best wishes.
could a little hiatus hernia cause prolonged chest pain shortness of breath palpitations diarrea? did a catheterism all was ok but chest pain continues
most hiatus hernias are silent and not associated with symptoms. a short course of antacids might help to clarify. if the pain goes away within 2 weeks of taking a daily antacid(like omeprazole) then you will have the answer. otherwise you should take tylenol (acetaminophen) as needed and ignore this pain as it is not caused by something serious like coronary artery disease which has now been ruled out. ? muscular.
could a little hiatus hernia cause prolonged chest pain shortness of breath palpitations diarrea? did a catheterism all was ok but chest pain continues
there are many causes of chest pain and not all of them relate to the heart. you should discuss your symptoms with the doctors who know you and ask them to explain what the possibilities are for you given the normal cardiac catheterization.
can 'metamide' (a pill taken for a suspected hiatus hernia) affect the effectiveness of the contraceptive pill ava 30?
you're likely referring to metaclopramide (reglan). please read the side effect profile of this medication--it may make you reconsider taking it casually for the indication you describe.
could it be hiatus hernia that is causing gerd?
a hiatal hernia can be a cause of food reflux into the esophagus causing heartburn or esophageal injury or esophagitis. other people with reflux can be from a weakness in the muscle at the junction of the stomach and esophagus without hiatal hernia.
could it be hiatus hernia that is causing gerd?
classic combo.
cramp pain 2yrs after hiatus hernia op?
check with you surgeon to make sure all is well. might not even be related to the hernia repair but they might want to do a barium swallow study or upper scope to make sure based on a full history of your current symptoms.
cramp pain 2yrs after hiatus hernia op?
it depends on details like where the pain is what are the aggravating and alleviating factors what i the quality of the pain (crampy) and is it similar to the symptom before the repair does the pain radiate how did it start and how often is the pain. you should see your doctor to sort it out.
can a pet scan detect a hiatus hernia?
hh ( hiatal hernia) can be sen on the ct portion of the exam sometimes. most hhs slide. come and go based on patient positioning eating etc. therefore not always seen. note if the hh is metabolically active/"hot". your doctor may suggest endoscopy to look at the area in your distal esophagus.
can a pet scan detect a hiatus hernia?
if it was done as a pet/ct scan it can.
can a pet scan detect a hiatus hernia?
a pet scan is used to detect cancer spread.
can hiatus hernia or gerd give you chest-pain arm neck as well as jaw pains?
and gerd can cause heartburn often mistaken for chest pain of cardiac origin. but it does not cause neck jaw or arm pain. so it is entirely possible that you have two origins of your pain esophagus and heart. you need to see a doctor to make sure you are not going to have a heart attack.
can hiatus hernia or gerd give you chest-pain arm neck as well as jaw pains?
it is possible to get these symptoms with gerd nd reflux especially if esophageal spasm coexists. it pays to be checked out however to be sure a cardiac cause isn't present.
hi can you tell me what to do i have basilar artery migraine hiatus hernia and fibromyalgia and i want to work in a kitchen is it safe x?
i would always be careful in the kitchen however your conditions are not uncommon; you should be managed by a good pain management physician for the long term.
hi can you tell me what to do i have basilar artery migraine hiatus hernia and fibromyalgia and i want to work in a kitchen is it safe x?
small hiatal hernias are not serious problems and do not limit activities at all. large hernias can cause difficulty eating chest pain ulcers and anemia all of which could potentially lot activities. having said that most large hiatal hernias do not cause debilitating symptoms but are at increased risk to get worse.
can a hiatus hernia lead to bad breath and how should one control it?
hiatus hernia may lead to reflux and bad breath typically comes from substances in the bloodstream which enter the lungs to be breathed out (exhaled) or from bacteria on the tongue - these are the two most common causes. you should discuss management of the hernia with your internist or gastroenterologisr.
can a hiatus hernia lead to bad breath and how should one control it?
to my knowledge there is no connection between the two. floss brush and use a chlorhexidine mouth rinse.
how are anxiety and a hiatus hernia different?
anxiety or sometimes called "globus hystericus" can cause some people to feel a sticking sensation in their throat after eating and even cause trouble swallowing. a hiatus hernia is an anatomical defect at the diaphragm that allows the stomach to rise into the chest. this may or may not cause any symptoms at all. see your doctor for complete history and physical exam and perhaps egd.
hi i have a small hiatus hernia and don't know what kind of exercise can i do. can someone please help me. i want to exercise.
a small hiatal hernia meaning no bigger than 2cm shouldn't be a problem when it comes to exercise. it may cause you some heartburn and strenuous exercise may exacerbate that a bit but for the most part you should be able to do whatever exercises you want to.
hi i have a small hiatus hernia and don't know what kind of exercise can i do. can someone please help me. i want to exercise.
the more common or sliding hiatal hernia means the opening in the diaphragm for the esophagus is enlarged and some of the stomach slide up into the chest. extreme straining or tightening of the abdominal muscles may increase reflux symptoms but is unlikely to cause any significant problems.
hi i have a small hiatus hernia and don't know what kind of exercise can i do. can someone please help me. i want to exercise.
there are absolutely no limitations on activity with a small hiatal hernia in a healthy 27 year old that i can think of.
hi is there any way of fixing the hiatus hernia without operation done?
most of hiatus hernias are sliding type only rarer para esophageal hernias needs surgery as they can incarcerate surgery is for gerd not for hernia ( or the acid reflux) most of the time possible to control with by diet early supper not over filling the stomach elevation of head while sleeping and protan inhibitors to reduce acid out put try this first
can hiatus hernia cause pain in upper right back?
hiatal hernia by itself usually does not cause pain but it is usually accompanied by gerd which can cause epigastric or substernal (both in front of body) pain. pain in right back could be from gallbladder problems. see a doctor for advice.
can a hiatus hernia be detected using just a scan?
cr scan can be utilized to detect a hiatal hernia. a gastroscopy can also detect it and tell you how far down and the condition of the stomach and esophagus. a ph probe will tell you if the reflux is causing harm. eat well and exercise.
can a hiatus hernia be detected using just a scan?
even though hiatus hernia can be detected by mri cat scan ultrsonography. it does not offer any advantages over upper gi xrays and endoscopy.
can you have severe diarhia with hiatal hernia?
hiatus hernia does not cause diarrhea.
how to cure bad breath from hiatus hernia? reflux is barely there oral hygiene is perfect.
tell you that your hiatal hernia is causing your bad breath or is this your conclusion? did a dentist tell you that your oral hygiene is perfect or is this how you feel? the reason i ask is because patients like to self diagnose. the internet is fabulous for information but without a clinical exam and more details it is impossible to diagnose you in this forum. see your dentist for more answers.
how to cure bad breath from hiatus hernia? reflux is barely there oral hygiene is perfect.
treat the reflux and the hernia. these are you best options and glad the hygiene is excellent.
hi doc i have diagnosed hiatus hernia with gerd esophgitis la grade b and duodanitis. is it curable by lifestyle modification? or surgery is rqrd?
duodenitis will not be affected by your hiatal hernia and you should start a acid-reducing medication and rule-out h. pylori. the esophagitis will not be cured by lifestyle modification as this is an anatomical problem with the stomach sliding or fixed in the chest space which causes the reflux. surgery is the only way to fix this.
hi doc i have diagnosed hiatus hernia with gerd esophgitis la grade b and duodanitis. is it curable by lifestyle modification? or surgery is rqrd?
hiatal hernia is very common. there are different types: sliding and paraesophageal hiatal hernia. most common one is sliding. they come in different sizes. the majority of patients will not have any complication related to this condition. most common symptom is acid reflux. with la grade b esophagitis this can be treated with medications. discuss and ask more questions with your gi for tx.
can i get pregnant. whilst having hiatus hernia?
hiatal hernia is when a portion of the stomach slides into the chest cavity and usually results in increased acid reflux symptoms. this hernia (and others) should not relate to your ability to get pregnant and so take appropriate precautions regarding contraception.
can i get pregnant. whilst having hiatus hernia?
hernia does not affect your ability to get pregnant.
can i get pregnant. whilst having hiatus hernia?
you can. your symptoms may worsen.
can i get pregnant. whilst having hiatus hernia?
hiatal hernia (<link> mayoclinic. com/health/hiatal-hernia/ds00099) will not prevent you from getting pregnant. just have unprotected sex. of course that also increases your risk for stds so make sure you know your partner!
can i get pregnant. whilst having hiatus hernia?
has absolutely no bearing on pregnancy.
can having a hiatus hernia and having oesophagitis cause severe chest pain and pressure discomfort?
if you are not on a proton pump inhibitor (such as omeprazole) you should be. but yes hiatal hernia can cause very severe pain.
can having a hiatus hernia and having oesophagitis cause severe chest pain and pressure discomfort?
if the hiatal hernia is large enough it can cause chest pain. these large hernias are also referred to as paraesophageal hernias and are diagnosed with upper gi contrast x-rays and/or upper endoscopy. hope this helps!
can having a hiatus hernia and having oesophagitis cause severe chest pain and pressure discomfort?
you should have your doctor make sure that no heart issues are causing the chest pain before exploring the hiatal hernia as the cause.
can pressing on a hiatus hernia provoke a mini anxiety attack?
generally small hiatal hernias cause no symptoms. you can't really "press" on a hiatal hernia anyway. large hernias also known as paraesophageal hernias can cause chest pain and difficulty swallowing both of which could precipitate an anxiety attack in susceptible individuals.
can pressing on a hiatus hernia provoke a mini anxiety attack?
dependent on individuals. i am not aware of general rule. individuals response to response to various stimuli is different. if you respond that way it is entirely possible. however it does not apply to majority of the people.
could lifting (eg babies and young children) affect an hiatus hernia?
many people with reflux have a hiatal hernia. not all people with hiatal hernias have reflux. the symptoms of hiatal hernia may be subtle or none at all. lifting babies and/or children can cause an increase in intrabdominal pressure. this could affect reflux and increase pressure on a hiatal hernia. but so too would sneezing coughing or any straining. it is safe to do so no need to worry.
hiatus hernia repair operation what to expect?
this surgery is usually done with laparoscope and involves a one day stay. you will start with thin liquids and advance slowly. this should help your symptoms of reflux. good luck
have hiatal hernia. lately i'm having soft pale-colored stools that float diarrhea stomach pain gas nausea. are these symptoms related to hernias?
stomach pain gas nausea could relate to hiatal hernia and coexist ant conditions(e. g. reflux). unlikely that diarrhea would be related to hiatus hernia.
anyone had surgery to fix acid reflux/hiatus hernia problems? how successful?
reflux of stomach contents (acid) is usually due to incompetent valve or hiatal hernia. it is aggravated by position (lying down) spicy foods and obesity. treatment includes mediating above factors. then is meds like ppi which shut off acid. if meds fail then surgery including fundoplication can help - usually has very good outcomes. speak to your physician.
a doctor in mexico told me that i have a epigastric hernia but my doctor in usa told me that it was a hiatus hernia what is the diffferences and how to determine which one i have thanks?
a hiatal hernia is an enlargement of the (normal) hole in the diaphragm thru which the esophagus passes. this may be associated with gastroesophageal reflux causing heartburn. it can only be seen by ct or endoscopy. an epigastric hernia is a hole in the upper-midline abdominal wall thru which the inner lining of the abdominal cavity can protrude. this can usually be easily seen/felt as a bulge.
a doctor in mexico told me that i have a epigastric hernia but my doctor in usa told me that it was a hiatus hernia what is the diffferences and how to determine which one i have thanks?
a hiatal hernia is when a part of the stomach herniated thru the hiatus (tight opening thru the diaphragm. this type of hernia can cause avid reflux feeling of pressure in the mod lower chest indigestion and increased burping. epigastric hernia may have been used to mean the same thing. a hiatal hernia is different from abdominal wall hernia which can be felt as a protruding bulge.
a doctor in mexico told me that i have a epigastric hernia but my doctor in usa told me that it was a hiatus hernia what is the diffferences and how to determine which one i have thanks?
hiatus hernia is when the stomach tends to slide up into the chest through a natural "hiatus" (opening) the diaphragm. it can cause heart burn and abdominal/chest discomfort. an upper gi series x-ray will demonstrate the presence of hiatus hernia. i have not heard of.
doctor diagnosed me with hiatus hernia. is it curable or treatable? some advice on what to do and what will be done with me?
you have a hiatal hernia. you are 19. this is a very treatable abnormality. your doctor will treat your symptoms and follow with you. if you are feeling well with medications then he/she will follow. as you age you may require more intervention. you may need a diagnostic study. you will need to manage your weight and to exercise. watch what you eat. be well.
doctor diagnosed me with hiatus hernia. is it curable or treatable? some advice on what to do and what will be done with me?
many people have a hiatal hernia (the opening in the diaphragm for the esophagus is too big) but no symptoms. these people need no treatment. the most common problem is reflux which is effectively treated with acid blocking medications in most patients. if the reflux is severe and not helped with medciations then the hernia should be repaired with an antireflux operation.
can i still get pregnant with a hiatus hernia and a ulcer?
absolutely if you have a uterus and functioning ovaries with those other medical problems you can get pregnant.
can i still get pregnant with a hiatus hernia and a ulcer?
having an hiatal hernia and ulcer should no affect your fertility; meaning that you can get pregnant. it is important to keep in mind that your symptoms may be worse during pregnancy. your condition should be well controlled and preferably the ulcer healed prior to trying to get pregnant. you should also be sure you are not anemic and take a multivitamin with folate (folic acid) every day.
can drinking alcohol cause irritation when you have a hiatus hernia?
yes it can. try to cut back on your alcohol intake. it can cause a gastritis and with an underlying hiatal hernia it could be worse.
any remedies for hiatus hernia? symptoms include some burping bad breath some reflux.
first line therapy would be acid blocking medications such as h2 blockers or proton pump inhibitors. if those do not work surgery to correct the hernia may be needed. given that you are young i'd consider surgery sooner than later as we are just learning some of the long term issues with chronic anti acid medication. one example is increased osteoporosis due to decreased calcium absorption.
any remedies for hiatus hernia? symptoms include some burping bad breath some reflux.
reflux is definitely related to your hernia which usually can be controlled with medication (many choices). in resistant cases surgery is required. definitely ask your doctor what medicine is best for your symptom relief.
any remedies for hiatus hernia? symptoms include some burping bad breath some reflux.
you basically treat the symptoms of reflux with h-2 blockers like pepcid (famotidine) or proton-pump inhibitors like prilosec. try those first. if the hiatal hernia is severe then in some cases surgery is done but this is not common.
hi. what are the symptoms of small sliding hiatus hernia? thanks
a small sliding hiatal hernia cannot be attributed to any symptoms. not even reflux as many people without a hernia have reflux and many people with hernias do not have reflux. if the hernia enlarges it could cause difficulty eating intermittent chest pain and pressure and ulcers with/without anemia. hope this helps!
hi i was diagnosed with small sliding hiatus hernia. no reflux symptoms at all. wondering if this can enlarge in future and cause me probs? 23yo male
a small hh can increase overtime. while many to most maybe asymptomatic many present with mild reflux causing "heartburn". if this becomes chronic or uncomfortable see your dr. for medical treatment. please do not try to treat with over the counter substances before talking to your dr. as there may be more serious problems than were anticipated.
hi i was diagnosed with small sliding hiatus hernia. no reflux symptoms at all. wondering if this can enlarge in future and cause me probs? 23yo male
sliding hiatal hernias are very common and often cause no problems. if you should ever develop symptoms of reflux which is also a common disorder affecting nearly everyone sometimes at least temporarily you can always treat it with one of many medicines that are available. meanwhile not to worry.
am 42 year old female just diagnosed with diminutive hiatus hernia. my q is is life threatening & can it be completely cured with medications?
a hiatal hernia is a condition where the stomach is protruding up into the chest cavity. this is rarely life threatening and only when the hernia is quite large so shouldn't be an issue for you unless it gets larger which typically takes years. this anatomical condition can only be repaired with a surgical procedure. medications may help reflux symptoms but will not fix the hernia.
am 42 year old female just diagnosed with diminutive hiatus hernia. my q is is life threatening & can it be completely cured with medications?
rarely or never life threatening could be cured by medicine rarely less than ten percent might need surgery.
can i drink alcohol with a small hiatus hernia. i have no gerd or heartburn. thank you. ?
you may drink alcohol with a small hiatal hernia but in small amounts so you don't get reflux. also long-term safe alcohol consumption in males is best kept to less than 4-6 drinks a week and not all at once!
diagnosed with hiatus hernia. have taken all otc meds protonix and nexium (esomeprazole). none were helpful. what other options are there?
there is always the option of surgical repair of a hiatal hernia but usually these are small and not the cause of the problem. it also depends on what the problem is - reflux symptoms or difficulty swallowing or anemia or chest pain and weight loss. latter symptoms are usually due to large hernias known as paraesophageal hernias. hope this helps!
difference between hiatus hernia and ulsar pain?
ulcers tend to cause pain in the upper stomach and is often described as burning gnawing or hunger-like and sometimes can be crampy or vague. you can also have discomfort after eating with increased belching early satiety upper abdominal fullness nausea and sometimes vomiting. type i hiatal hernia pain feels like reflux/heartburn. larger hernias can cause nausea retching and fullness after eating
difference between hiatus hernia and ulsar pain?
symptom. hiatus hernia is diagnosed when part of the stomach slides into the chest. ulcer pain is pain the abdomen may be burning pain due to ulcer in the stomach or duodenum.
difference between hiatus hernia and ulsar pain?
the hiatal hernia & the ulcer pain are in 2 different places altogether for starters. the hiatal hernia involves the uppermost part of the stomach and is associated with a lot of acid reflux in the esophagus. ulcer pains are either in the body of the stomach (usually lower down) or in the duodenum. pain associated there is usually sharp intense no associated too much with reflux but with meal
difference between hiatus hernia and ulsar pain?
a hiatal hernia is an anatomic scenario where part of the stomach(usually just the upper part) protrudes through a weak part in the diaphragm(breathing muscle). this doesn't have to cause any symptoms or issues but can predispose people to acid reflux. ulcer pain is quite variable from burning to aching in the epigastrium(stomach area) sometimes with nausea bloating.
hiatal hernia repair without fundoplication possible? i don't have acid reflux problems. but constant shoulder tightness sob andchestpain when relax
if you do not have reflux you may noted surgery most of the hiatus hernias are sliding type no fear of strangulation except paraoesophagheal type where surgery is indicated. speak to your doctor.
hiatal hernia repair without fundoplication? no reflux issues just constant shoulder/chest tight ness and sob- due to hernia interrupting diagram?
if you do not have reflux you may noted surgery most of the hiatus hernias are sliding type no fear of strangulation except paraoesophagheal type where surgery is indicated. speak to your doctor.
how long until my small hiatus hernia grows. no symptoms at the moment. 23 yo and a little scared. also how successful are surgery fixes? thank u
there is no need to give any thought to an asymptomatic hiatal hernia. it could become symptomatic but your best defense is a healthy diet exercise and maintaining a near normal bmi.
can i fix a small hiatus hernia myself by pushing into my sternum wit my hand and pulling my stomach down. ? ty.
very deep internally. no chance of improving it that way.
diagnosed with small sliding hiatus hernia no heartburns but sharp chest pain which radiates to back sometimes. is this condition serious? ty
if small no. could have resultant reflux pain which stems from stomach acid going back up the esophagus. you are at risk for this because of the hiatal hernia & usually is present after eating something spicy fatty or really heavy. avoid foods like above as well as smoking alcohol & medications like aleve/advil/motrin. see a gi specialist or surgeon for possible repair if the pain continues.
diagnosed with small hiatus hernia. no reflux or heartburn. will playing sports like cricket football make it bigger. i don't lift heavy weights. ty?
it may get larger with time but most likely not until your 70. furthermore activity won't influence that. i would forget about that diagnosis and love your life normally and without restriction. hope this helps!
do i need to control diet with a small hiatus hernia if no symptoms at all are present? 23yo 124lbs. ty
no but use common sense when you are eating specially the spicy and the greasy food.
drink around 8-16 units of alcohol weeky within guildline. have small hiatus hernia never had any symptoms with it. will alcohol affect hernia? ty.
not directly. alcohol will decrease the pressure at lower esophageal sphincter so it might worsen any gastroesophageal reflux that you might have already.
diagnosed small hiatus hernia. not even a bit of heartburn gerd ect. will my hh grow if i lift weights at gym? 23yo slim 134lbs. thank you
this article will help clarify the problem. <link> mayoclinic. org/diseases-conditions/hiatal-hernia/basics/causes/con-20030640
female 60yrs. previously diagnosed with hiatus hernia ibs. after eating vegetables gets very bloated in ~15mins. potatoes white rice white bread is fine but issues with multi grain bread?
could be gallbladder. get checked by doctor.
female 60yrs. previously diagnosed with hiatus hernia ibs. after eating vegetables gets very bloated in ~15mins. potatoes white rice white bread is fine but issues with multi grain bread?
complex carbohydrates may not get well digested. can try beano product to help digest those. avoid sugarless gum candy carbonated beverages gluten issues would occur with white bread too. celiac sptue possible but unlikely. bring diet diary and talk with doctor. maybe some testing or not.
have acid reflux and hiatus hernia i have been prescribed rabeprazole 20mg omeprazole 20mg and lansoprazole 30mg which would you say was best?
all of the ppi's (proton pump inhibitors) are very effective at reducing acid. some keep the gastric ph <4 longer than others but the bottom line is which one works for you at the lowest dosage and the cheapest price. check with your insurance company and find out which is their preferred drug.
been diagnosed with hiatus hernia. on meds. but keep getting bad bouts sickness severe headaches major acid reflux and insomnia. wat else can i do?
elevate the head of the bed and abound eating at least two hours before going to bed. also make sure nothing else is wrong and causing your symptoms. not sure why the headache. is the hernia very large?
been dx hiatus hernia with inflammation. every day my upper abdomen is swollen hard and hard to breathe lost appetite. ?
hiatal hernia with inflammation is usually due to reflux of gastric contents. a hard swelling with difficulty breathing may represent an incarcerated hernia. contact your surgeon right away.
can i up the dose of glucophage xr 500mg. i have pcos and morbidly obese. need to lose 90pounds. got no gallbladder have hiatus hernia and barrets. ?
f of unknown age ethnicity needs to lose 90 lbs asks: can i increase the dose of glucphagr xr 500? ans: only the dr who prescribed it can tell you. however i can recommend book on the dash eating plan with calories set at 2 000/d and wt will melt. y best pt lost 70 lbs. but u can beat record. isbn: 0-7434-1007-6 eisbn-13: 978-1-43914-059-8. wt will start down tomorrow. keep us posted.
diagnosed with small hiatus hernia. no symptoms at all. recently quit weightlifting as it could stretch. wt are chances it grows and giv me symptoms?
despite the cessation of weigh lifting just have to wait and see.
do small hiatus hernia (2cm) usually grow larger? no heartburn no gerd at all.
hello~ yes over a long period of they tend to get larger depending on whether they are "sliders" or "rollers" the latter tending to enlarge earlier. thanks
experiencing bloating due to trapped gas. is the trapped gas a symptom of the hiatus hernia?
but air/ gas can be in the stomach small intestine or colon. some gas is generated by bacteria as well. some reasons digestion acid etc generates gas. swallowed air is also a component. relief with antacids absorbents like mylicon etc may give a hint.
e-g junction- normal at 37cm with 3cm hiatus hernia mildly inflamed go junction. bad? curable?
think it is anything really bad and it is curable with medication. ask your gi specialist for specific recommendation.
gastrointerologist thinks my gerd caused by hiatus hernia endoscopy next week to check is hiatus hernia dangerous? will i die of it? complication?
uncommon for a young man but your endoscopy will find out if anything is wrong. if so appropriate management will be given. no unless there is some major issue - not very likely- you are not going to die for many decades. hope all goes well.
got an small hiatus hernia. 24yo no symptoms at all. will are the chances of it growing with age. i have stopped all heavy lifting and watch my diet. ?
your attempts will retard the eventuality but not prevent it. diet is not the answer to every health problem
hello i was suffering from hiatus hernia last year. i followed routine as suggested by doctor after doing endoscopy it was cured hwever i am getting?
i'm not sure what your question is. this kind of hernia may recur and if you are symptomatic please make an appointment with your physician.
hello i was suffering from hiatus hernia last year. i followed routine as suggested by doctor after doing endoscopy it was cured hwever i am getting?
please resubmit
hi i've frequent severe acidity problem so did endoscopy doctor said it's small hiatus hernia acidity keep coming back is there any permanent solution?
have hiatal hernias. most are sliding type & appear intermittently requiring no intervention especially when small. however as to your question of a permanent "fix" for gerd there are a number of endoscopic and minimally invasive techniques that bolster the lower esophageal sphincter reflux barrier--but even these can break down over time or become complicated in some people.
is it possible for gallbladder problems to cause a heaviness in right breast deep in chest? mammogram ok. ultrasound ok
were the gall bladder and liver normal on u/s? have you had a chest xray? you could have a hiatus hernia or rib cage strain. is the area tender? does movement aggravate the discomfort? is the pain ever sharp like a pinched nerve? are there belching and indigestion symptoms? these questions and answers will help your physician diagnose the problem.
what causes chest pain and tachycardia after eatiing large meals?
(? your pretty young) frequently hiatus hernia ; gerd! see pcp!
hospital 4 chest pain. ekg & scans normal. blood says liver enzymes high but are going back diwn &electrlyts diwn. what is wrong? what other tests?
get your gallbladder checked out. start with an ultrasound. consider ct of the abdomen which might show other things like a hiatus hernia. you might have passed a small gallstone which could have provoked some pancreatitis as well.
i am 62 years old none smoker/drinker lost 90 lbs over last 7 months now weigh 245 lbs. / 5'10" but i still get strong chest pains when i bend over?
chest pain on bending over may be due to a hiatus hernia aggravated by abdominal obesity. further weight reduction may be very helpful. a gastroenterologist is best qualified to evaluate you for this problem and an old fashioned barium swallow and upper gi series may be ordered to demonstrate a hiatus hernia.
i feel like a hiccup is stuck in my chest hurts to swallow anything. always have a painful hiccup on my first sip of soda.
i'm sorry but the question sounds too vague. more information would be needed before a diagnosis can be made. it is possible that you suffer from either a hiatus hernia or reflux or even inflammation of the food pipe (oesophagitis). you will need further evaluation and maybe a gastroscopy to see what the cause is. see your doctor
i've been feeling stress in my stomach area tight chest. what causes this?
please be more specific - do you mean pressure or pain in your stomach area? there could be several causes for this including acid reflux ulcers hiatus hernia asthma. you need to see your dr for further workup
shortness of breath chest pain burping and farting a lot cough that won't go away noisy stomach(not hungry) stomach cramping i had ekg and chest x-ray 2 weeks ago and they were clear. is this gerd?
have you been checked for a hiatus hernia lactose intolerance or gluten intolerance? for these symptoms try taking mylanta 1/2 hour after meals and at bedtime. an examination by a gastroenterologist would be recommended.
pain under my right breast bone. ekg and blood tests were normal. no clotting and enzymes were fine. what could this be?
it may be due to following causes 1costochondritis or chest wall pain 2 gall bladder like cholecystitis gall stones 3esophageal reflux/esophagitis/hiatus hernia 4pleurisy 5pancreatis.
what are some ways to stop heart burn?
acid-stoppers (old-fashioned antacids proton pump inhibitors) are ubiquitous. if you have reflux a trick is to put cinder blocks under the head of your bed. most of us are trying to lose weight. still troublesome? your gastroenterologist may be able to help anything from an rx to surgery for hiatus hernia or something more troublesome. good luck.
