is it truly possible for boils to reoccur for 7+ years? (cellulitis inverted sweat glands etc)?
hidradenitis suppurativa is a chronic skin condition which can present as recurrent boils. (by inverted sweat glands you may mean acne inversa which is the same thing). other causes are also possible. consultation with a dermatologist and/or general surgeon is recommended.
i have a hidradenitis suppurativa cyst on my vulva. normally i use neosporin and a bandage after it bursts but how do i treat it in this situation?
if you have had earlier episodes of hyderadenitis suppurativa you need to be evaluated for a cause. diabetes and obesity are two common predisposing causes. for the lesion on the vulva you may use neosporin ointment without bandage. it is imperative that you see a doctor for evaluation for the underlying cause. for good health - have a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains milk and milk products nuts beans legumes lentils and small amounts of lean meats. avoid saturated fats. drink enough water daily so that your urine is mostly colorless. exercise at least 150 minutes/week and increase the intensity of exercise gradually. do not use tobacco alcohol weed or street drugs in any form. practice safe sex.
i have white pus coming out of my armpit but theyre is no bump previously i had bumps come out but this time its just two open pores what does this me?
the most common cause is something called hidradenitis suppurativa. this isn't dangerous but it can cause a discharge and at times this can smell. it's a condition that tends to get a little worse before stabilizing. the other possible cause is something called an epidermoid cyst not dangerous but can intermittently cause a white pus to be secreted and sometimes painful.
my friend is an over weight person and she gets these really bad boils between her legs probably 3 or 4 at a time what is the best thing for her?
there is a skin condition known as hidradenitis suppurativa that most commonly affects areas bearing sweat & sebaceous glands such as the underarms breasts & inner thighs. see a dermatologist to discuss treatment options.
started remicade (infliximab) 4 mos ago for hidradenitis suppurativa. makes me very sick/no appetite. started having rapid weight loss & yellow diarrhea. normal?
if you are having these issues the first thing you should consider is stopping the remicade (infliximab). these are not normal issues. speak with your doc.
