what causes low potassium? what are the symptoms of low potassium?
there are many causes of a low blood potassium level. it can be caused by vomiting diarrhea diuretic use antibiotics such as penicillin low magnesium blood levels increased sweating and hyperaldosteronism or conn's syndrome. see your physician to arrive the correct diagnosis in your case.
what causes low potassium? what are the symptoms of low potassium?
hyperaldosteronism. . cramps are most common symptoms and rarely arrhythmia.
is spironolactone good for bp control. would 25 mg spironolactone at pm along with benicar (olmesartan) 40/hct 12. 5 in am ok. is this too much diuretic to have.
it is a good medication to have in certain conditions like obesity and hypertension sleep apnea and hypertension hyperaldosteronism and htn. used along with benicar (olmesartan) there can be a concern for high potassium levels- your doc can monitor that.
is there such thing as "congenital" hypokalemia? hypokalemia is 30% present on my father's sides relatives.
i am an expert in hypokalemia and happy to consult with you and your team on your family. you may want to go to a yahoo group i run for these problems. it is called hyperaldosteronism. over 1 300 folks there with different problems including familial ones.
if bad diet is not cause of low potassium what other tests need to be done? went from 2. 4 to 4. 4 after i. v. - 5 days later 4. 3 then 2 weeks later 3. 9
i trust you were not using a diuretic for high blood pressure or to lose weight. some "holistic herbal" pills may not be what they claim. trust you did not have bad diarrhea extreme sweating any previous history ; this is not a lab error from letting the specimen sit around for a while and have the white cells / platelets take it up. the entity to rule out is conn's hyperaldosteronism.
i have low potassium and leading up to getting my blood checked i had upper stomach pain and near fainting experience would low potassium cause this.
low potassium in and of itself is unlikely to cause this symptom. if potassium is on the low side regularly might want to discuss possibility of hyperaldosteronism or too much hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) with your doc.
what's the treatment for potassium deficiency?
the body is very good at handling potassium. virtually all potassium is in your cells not in your bloodstream. unless you are taking diuretics vomiting or having diarrhea eat a very unusual diet or have hyperaldosteronism it is hard to drive your k+ down to dangerous levels. most low k+ is artifact or transient alterations. treatment is oral or iv potassium replacement depending on severity.
when will i feel better from hypokalemia?
when you correct the low k you will almost immediately feel better. how? begin dash eating plan now and you will likely feel much better i. 2 weeks. get this book. pa is all i do. recommend dash eating plan. the exact id for the book is: isbn: 0-7434-1007-6 e-book is eisbn-13: 978-1-43914-059-8”. if you local bookstore does join our group of over 1 000 at hyperaldosteronism at yahoo groups.
what is the probable diagnosis of hypertension+ hypokalemia+ hyponatremia+high 24h urine aldosterone+ normal arr?
aldosterone causes loss of k+ in exchange for na+ in the nephron. the volume of water in the urine will follow the na+ back into the blood leading to an increase in blood pressure. secondary hyperaldosteronism is the pathologically increased secretion of this & renin which could be from renal artery stenosis or other rare causes. see your physician to get it figured out.
what are the causes of low potassium high blood pressure and palpitations?
high blood pressure with low blood potassium levels brings the potential diagnosis of elevated aldosterone level (hyperaldosteronism) as a possibility. there may be other reasons- for example if you are taking a bp medication that may cause low potassium levels but your bp is still elevated. this finding requires a proper medical evaluation and lab analysis.
would low potassium cause blood pressure yo be lower than normal or higher?
potassium levels does not have a significant effect on blood pressure directly however levels of potassium are affected by medications that treat blood pressure such as diuretics and ace inhibitors. there are also medical conditions that cause high blood pressure that affect potassium level as well e. g. hyperaldosteronism.
what could cause my low potassium levels?
reference ranges are set so that a few percent of healthies fall outside on either end. if very low it's time you get checked for a reason -- hyperaldosteronism gets missed a lot. i'm assuming you're not on meds. one little-known cause is eating lots of licorice. best wishes.
secondary hyper aldsoterone - can it be left untreated without side effects in the future?
secondary hyperaldosteronism occurs in renal artery stenosis dehyration liver cirrhosis heart failure and other causes. treatment is for symptoms rather than for treating the number.
inspra for primary idiopathic hyperaldosteronism. is this a good treatment? my b/p isn't too high but i have chronic low potassium & arrhythmia.
greetings matthew-inspra is an aldosterone blocker used to treat patients with hypertension and heart failure but is often used in the medical treatment of hyperaldosteronism. it is more selective in blocking aldosterone than other older drugs in this class. having a thorough work up for hyperaldosteronism is very important. best regards.
my girl is having hypokalemia. she recently have been saying that she is having chest pain while sleeping and eating. what is the remedy for it?
find out cause first but till then have her start dash eating plan chap 9 today. book numbers are isbn: 0-7434-1007-6 or eisbn-13: 978-1-43914-059-8 this will help almost immediately. need much more info tho and i specialize n this. can do 2nd opinion or go 2 yahoo group hyperaldosteronism. 1st check k n urine and blood. if low n both then losing from sweat stool or vomit or taking diuretics.
is having a uti making my low potassium level worse?
get worked up including a competent hyperaldosteronism check
can nausea with migraine cause hypokalemia?
39 asks can nausea with migraine cause hypokalemia. no but if you vomit a lot low k may develop. more likely is that your low k is caused by conn's syndrome: headache is a very common symptom. so if bp high or pee a lot at night come to my yahoo group hyperaldosteronism at yahoo. com. i also specialize in this so you can get my second opinion.
what is the best way to wean off metroprolol. i take 100 mg succinate er per day for hyperaldosteronism (blood pressure). how long does it take?
the answer is with full knowledge of and only under the direction of your physician.
what is the best way to wean off metroprolol. i take 100 mg succinate er per day for hyperaldosteronism (blood pressure). how long does it take?
i'm assuming your doctor told you to do this so there should have been some weaning instructions? don't do this on your own. there are various schedules - your doc knows you best. a typical schedule might be 50 mg a day for 7 days 25 mg a day for 7 days then stop. that's not fixed in stone.
what is the best way to wean off metroprolol. i take 100 mg succinate er per day for hyperaldosteronism (blood pressure). how long does it take?
recommend you join this group for hyperaldosteronism. we have had over 4000 there go to hyperaldosteronism@yahoo. com. see you there. i specialize in difficult high blood pressure and happy to do 2nd opinion here.
whats the cause of uncontrolled hypertension?
the most common cause is non compliance with prescribed treatment due to side effects not able to afford meds and just ignoring the condition as it has no symptoms in most cases. other causes are renal artery stenosis hyperaldosteronism. excessive salt intake nonsteroidal drug use and other over the counter drugs obstructive sleep apnea and chronic kidney disease.
what are the most common causes of high blood pressure?
essential htn is most common cause. this refers to basically a combination of family tendency an such things as weight gain high salt intake. smoking & alcohol contribute to high blood pressure as can diabetes. less common are secondary causes such as from renal disease hyperaldosteronism pheochromocytoma and so on. basic evaluation should include labs urinalysis and ecg. rx w/diet exercise meds.
