is mitral stenosis typically the result of rheumatic heart disease?
rheumatic heart disease is pretty rare these days due to aggressively treating strep throat with antibiotics. however it is still the most common cause of mitral stenosis. in general the causes of mitral stenosis include rheumatic fever infective endocarditis and just the wear and tear of natural aging.
i have had 2 tricuspic valve replacement one in july 2015 & another in november 2015. i had infective endocarditis and now have pain left of incision.
do you do drugs? you had the valve replaced twice within 4 months. do you know the organism? for how long were you on iv antibiotics the first and second times. before the first operation were you on antibiotics? was the organism resistant? did you had pulmonary septic embolism? is the pain constant do you have fever is it localized is the area of pain expanding? if yes to all you may have
which streptococcus group causes infective endocarditis?
group b strep is a common cause of endocarditis but virtually any strep strain could cause endocarditis.
what is the most common bacterium causing acute infective endocarditis?
staph endocarditis is most common pathogen. ithere are strep and other bacteria but clinical settings may va
why does digit clubbing and pethicheae arise as complications of infective endocarditis?
peripheral manifestations of endocarditis are do to antigen-antibody complex deposition including these . they develop in so-called subacute bacterial endocarditis that has gone on for weeks prior to being treated.
what streptococcus causes infective endocarditis?
it is estimated that about 2/3 of the cases of endocarditis are caused by streptococcal bacteria. streptococcal bacteria causing endocarditis include streptococcus viridans as well as groups a c and g streptococcal bacteria.
what streptococcus causes infective endocarditis?
are the most common cause of this infection. the alpha refers to the partial hemolysis found on a blood agar plate producing a green color as compared to the complete hemolysis of the beta strep. this green color is from where the term viridans streptococcus comes from. there is however no organism formally called streptococcus viridans.
what is endocarditis?
infective endocarditis (ie) is an infection of the endocardial surface (lining) of the heart which may include one or more heart valves the walls or a septal defect. people at greatest risk of endocarditis have a damaged heart valve an artificial heart valve or other heart defects.
what is the difference between infective and non-infective endocarditis?
infective endocarditis is infection of one or more heart valves by a microorganism. non-infective endocarditis is inflammation of a heart valve not caused by an infection. nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis is found in patients with malignancy chronic wasting diseases rheumatic and congenetal heart diseases and autoimmune diseases such as sle.
what is the difference between infective and non-infective endocarditis?
endocarditis is damage to the heart valves. infective endocarditis is caused by bugs such as staph aureas. non infectious endocarditis can be caused by certain cancers autoimmune and rheumatologic sources.
why does infective endocarditis attack the mitral valve?
valve can be involved.
why does infective endocarditis attack the mitral valve?
endocarditis can affect any valve usually depends on source and any pre-existing abnormalities.
what is inflammation of a heart valve called?
do you have the right term here. while inflammation can affect any organ in the body inflammation of a heart valve other than that which leads to myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve is not usually discussed. atherosclerosis can affect the heart valves and inflammation is a contributor to that but that is a separate issue. did you mean infection? that would be infective endocarditis.
what kind of heart problems make having dental work dangerous?
people with prosthetic heart valves should be pre-treated with antibiotics to decrease the likelihood of an infection known as infective endocarditis (ie) following dental procedures. others who should be pre-treated with antibiotics include those with a history of ie or who have had a heart transplant in which the new organ developed valve problems and some people with congenital heart defects.
who is more likely to get heart valve disease?
usually patients 75 years of age and older are more likely to get heart valve disease. patients with a history of infective endocarditis heart attacks heart failure and/or rheumatic fever are also or more likely to develop heart valve disease.
what is infective endocarditis? does infective mean it's contagious?
infective endocarditis is a bacterial blood infection that has infected the heart as well. it is not contagious.
what is infective endocarditis? does infective mean it's contagious?
even though it is called infective endocarditis it is not a contagious disease the way some other diseases are e. g. hicken pox is. the name implies that it is an infectious process that involves the structures of the heart (valves the covering of the heart and sometimes the muscles of the heart).
what is infective endocarditis? does infective mean it's contagious?
usually bacterial (rarely fungal) this infection affects the valves in the heart by causing an active infection damaging the valves. in normal people this is rare but those with congenital abnormalities of the valves or heart are more susceptible. iv drug use can also increase the chances of this infection. it can be acute which is very serious or subacute which tends to be harder to detect.
what kind of infection is infective endocarditis?
infective endocarditis is usually bacterial infection of the heart valves but fungi can also cause endocarditis.
what is subacute bacterial endocarditis?
subacute infective endocarditis is an infection of the endocardial surface (lining) of the heart which may include heart valves the walls or a septal defect. people at greatest risk of endocarditis have a damaged heart valve an artificial heart valve or other heart defects. iv drug abusers are at great risk. symptoms may be vague and diagnosis is often delayed. treatment is essential.
what is relationship of gum and heart disease?
researchers have found that people with periodontal (gum) disease are almost twice as likely to suffer from coronary artery disease as those without periodontal disease. periodontal disease can also exacerbate existing heart conditions. patients at risk for infective endocarditis may require antibiotics prior to dental procedures. so get to your dentist for frequent cleanings and floss!
what disadvantages do you have when you have valvular heart disease?
this depends on the valve involved the cause of the diseased valve and the degree to which it affects function. damaged valves also creates the risk of secondary valve infection (infective endocarditis) which can be life-threatening need long courses of antibiotics or require valve replacement. restrictions depend on disease severity. this should be discussed with cardiologist.
what are the dangers and restrictions of having valvular heart disease?
this depends on the valve involved the cause of the diseased valve and the degree to which it affects function. damaged valves also creates the risk of secondary valve infection (infective endocarditis) which can be life-threatening need long courses of antibiotics or require valve replacement. restrictions depend on disease severity.
what are the activities allowed with valvular heart disease.?
this depends on the valve involved the cause of the diseased valve and the degree to which it affects function. damaged valves also creates the risk of secondary valve infection (infective endocarditis) which can be life-threatening need long courses of antibiotics or require valve replacement. restrictions depend on disease severity. this should be discussed with cardiologist.
why does infective endocarditis attack the mitral valve and not the other ones?
the left sided valves (aortic and mitral) are commonly the most fequent infected. this can result from dental work infections elsewhere. the right sided valves can get infected too with the tricuspid eing more frequently involved. ths is seen in i've drug users frequently.
why does infective endocarditis attack the mitral valve and not the other ones?
current info does substantiate such a periodontal cardiac relationship. flossing is important in maintaining proper periodontal health.
what is meant by infective endocarditis?
infective endocarditis (ie) is an infection of the endocardial surface (lining) of the heart which may include one or more heart valves the walls or a septal defect. people at greatest risk of endocarditis have a damaged heart valve an artificial heart valve or other heart defects.
what is meant by infective endocarditis?
endocarditis is an infection of a heart valve. generally confirmed on echocardiogram.
what is meant by infective endocarditis?
it is usually when there are bacteria in the heart usually growing on one of the valves. it can also be caused by fungi. people with certain forms of congenital heart defects immune disorders and iv drug abusers are those most commonly affected.
why should i take antibiotics at the dentist's for a heart murmur?
antibiotics are used before dental treatment in order to reduce the incidence of infective endocarditis. a big word that means infection of the heart. consult your physician before taking antibiotics since the recommendation has changed over the years. hope this helps .
why infective endocarditis mostly affect valves of the heart?
blood flow and thus immune protection. also they are exposed to turbulent intracardiac flow.
what causes cardiomyopathy to lead to infective endocarditis?
cardiomyopathy by itself does not 'lead' to endocarditis. endocarditis is an infection of the lining of the heart and usually heart valves. however if you have cardiomyopathy there may be abnormalities of the heart valves too particularly leaking valves. this may slightly raise the risk of getting endocarditis in certain circumstances.
what causes cardiomyopathy to lead to infective endocarditis?
cardiomyopathies increase the risk of endocarditis because of the collateral processes causing the cardiomyopathy some of which cause valve lesions.
what type of fever we have when there is infective endocarditis?
most common is a fairly constant low grade fever of <101 degree f.
what type of fever we have when there is infective endocarditis?
because during most cases of endocarditis the bacteremia is low grade and constant the fever pattern (assuming no interruption by antipyretics or antibiotics) is also low grade. if spikes occur they may be related to metastatic foci of infection occurring because of the bacteremia. complicated infection and hope you have a top-notch infectious disease expert and a good cv surgeon following you.
what does chest pain from mitral valve prolapse feel like? and is it life threatening
chest discomfort fatigue shortness of breath and anxiety are common with mitral valve prolapse. the prognosis is considered to be benign with chance of complications at about 2% per year. if no complications (like atrial fibrillation heart failure infective endocarditis or embolism - blood clots - to the brain) then not to worry. do keep your regular checkups. hope that helps.
should i pre-medicate to prevent infective endocarditis?
in 2007 the american heart association american college of cardiology and american dental association downgraded its recommendations based on new research which showed that endocarditis is in most instances rarer than then the rare serious side effects of antibiotics. people with artificial valves or certain uncorrected forms of congenital heart disease do need prophylaxis. others don't.
should i pre-medicate to prevent infective endocarditis?
antibiotic prophylaxis recommendations have changed significantly. talk to your physician or cardiologist.
should i pre-medicate to prevent infective endocarditis?
it depends on whether the situation your facing is likely to produce significant bacteremia (bacteria in blood) and whether you have a significant structural abnormality of your heart that would make you more susceptible to acquire infective endocarditis.
