zolpidem is said to be used for a rape drug is this true and how does it work. can a man that has taken zolpiden get an erection while asleep?
zolpidem and any other medication or substance which sedates people can probably be used for "date rape. " however this is not an appropriate use of a medicine prescribed for temporary insomnia. rape is a serious crime. men often have erections while asleep at certain phases of sleep cycle. this still doesn't excuse rape.
i have a leaky valve i have sleep apnea and insomnia plus lymphedema and cellulitis in my leg was born with respiratory problems also have neuropathy?
this site can provide valuable incite for many issues if you use it properly. when you submit a question you must provide enough background information for site docs to review along with a concise question that reflects the info submitted. this is not a chat room so any question must be complete we do not have access to any previous question or data you use to sign up.
what is phendimetrazine used for and what are the side effects associated with the medication? i currently weigh 310 and am on weight watchers
phendimetrazine is a prescription medication used for treating obesity. it is a stimulant and appetite suppressant and can have many potential side effects - the most common being palpitations rapid pulse high blood pressure insomnia nervousness dizziness tremor headaches. at it's worse it can cause dependence and psychosis. wt watchers has far fewer side effects!
why do some docs say a long half-life mean a long withdrawal? xanax (alprazolam) and oxycodone have short h-ls and wd can last months. chemically speaking why?
drugs that leave your body rapidly are more likely to quickly reverse the effects of the drug. xanax (alprazolam) can make you calm relaxed euphoric and drowsy. when it leaves your body so abruptly you have a totally opposite reaction -- anxiety fear agitation insomnia tremors. seizure. most withdrawal symptoms for these drugs last about a week. sure there are some who have wd that can last longer.
woman 55 thin 22 lbs loss not dieting insomnia several normal stools/ day all bloods including thyroid normal?
also psychological factors such as depression or anxiety.
woman 55 thin 22 lbs loss not dieting insomnia several normal stools/ day all bloods including thyroid normal?
this problem must be worked up further. the only thing ruled out according to your question is an active gi blood loss which we know you do not have because your blood tests are normal. hyperthyroidism is ruled out. but a 22 lb weight loss in a 55 year thin woman is definitely abnormal and likely something serious. need further evaluation by certified internist gynecologist etc.
woman 55 thin 22 lbs loss not dieting insomnia several normal stools/ day all bloods including thyroid normal?
check other causes like malabsorption inflammatory markers cancer diabetes.
what are symptoms of sleep apnea?
if you have symptoms such as insomnia snoring hypersomnia excessive daytime sleepiness obesity asian race cognitive deficits mood disorders htn etc increase the chance of sleep apnea rule out other causes could be medical genetic long sleeper etc.
what is the treatment for overweight mother?
see the post on my blog "sweet and dangerous" title of blog is "oxygen the spark of life" that you can google. yudkin showed that sugar is a cause of many diseases including heart disease. go to www. prevmedgroup. com and read my essay on sugar as a cause of insomnia.
i have insomnia constipation and weight gain i've tried everything- prune healthy diet lots of exercise and my blood test came normal for thyroids
insomnia can have substantial affect on weight. you will need to check with your private m. d. as to the reasons for insomnia as sleep deprivation can lead to weight gain.
i have insomnia constipation and weight gain i've tried everything- prune healthy diet lots of exercise and my blood test came normal for thyroids
constipation is frequently a sx of other things. dehydration hypercalcemia primary diseases of colon. thyroid excluded as cause needs further evaluation. may additionaly be caused by medication opioid analgesics notorious.
i was prescribed phentermine? what are effects
dry mouth unpleasant taste diarrhea constipation vomiting some side effects can be serious. if you experience any of the following symptoms call your doctor immediately: increased blood pressure heart palpitations restlessness dizziness tremor insomnia shortness of breath chest pain dizziness swelling of the legs and ankles.
i take sleeping pills because i can't go to sleep due to stress from work. am i going to be addicted to it?
sleep aids are at times necessary to overcome short term insomnia. however you may run into a psychological dependency once sleep aids are chronically taken. i recommend to address stress management. cognitive behavior therapy with relaxation stimulus control and other is a healthier way to overcome the insomnia.
is xanax (alprazolam) effective at treating sleep apnea?
xanax (alprazolam) is really an anti anxiety agent that could help somebody who can't sleep because they're anxious ( but there are much better agents than xanax (alprazolam) for insomnia ) if you have sleep apnea then xanax (alprazolam) is not going to be a good option you'd still feel tired in the morning and definitely will do better with a cpap or bipap machine losing weight etc.
i am a female in my 20's i have noticed my hair used to be much thicker as a child. my periods are normal is this a hormone issue? not overweight
it could be a hormonal issue even if your blood tests are normal. if you also have symptoms such as fatigue sluggish bowel function allergies insomnia headaches brain fog joint pain and/or pms symptoms you likely have a functional problem with your thyroid. another common cause of hair thinning is iron deficiency. you can have your level checked by your physician.
is it ok to take weight loss supplements if so what would be the best one and wherw can i get it at?
weight loss supplements are not approved by the fda and may contain ingredients that could be harmful. many contain caffeine and other stimulants that can increase your heart rate cause insomnia headaches as well as even more serious effects. if you are on any meds it may interfere with it. the best way to lose weight & keep it off is to do so slowly by making healthy lifestyle changes.
i am on diet and taking a pill named "adipex retard". may i know is it any side effect for my body? will it spoil my kidney? how long should i stop?
phentermine can have many side effects including tachycardia insomnia dizziness constipation etc. it is metabolized by the liver so your kidneys won't be directly affected. most treatment courses last no more than 6 wks; this drug can be habit forming and dangerous side effects can occur if it is stopped abruptly. please be sure you are seeing a physician while taking this drug.
is weight gain common while on prozac (fluoxetine)?
not so much initially but over time it can cause weight gain like so many other antidepressants. some have even lost wight on it at first - but later it can promote tiredness decreased libido insomnia and weight gain. this can be confusing as it contrasts with its initial effects.
i think i have bruxism + insomnia + sleep apnea. help?
see a dentist trained in dental sleep medicine. bruxism (tooth grinding) & insomnia are signs of sleep apnea. a trained dentist can see that you have the correct diagnosis by a sleep specialist and if appropriate can make an oral appliance. in 2006 the american academy of sleep medicine published treatment parameters for mild-moderate sleep apnea & if cpap not used an oral appliance can be used.
i think i have bruxism + insomnia + sleep apnea. help?
as i have answered many times high calorie malnutrition is the major clue. all these symptoms are due to compromised biochemistrfy in brainstem and limbic system. i would bewilling to bet that you have a severe degree of vitamin b1 deficiency induced through a "junky" diet. get rid of sugar in all its forms and read my blog "oxygen the spark of life" that you can google. see a nutritionist.
i think i have bruxism + insomnia + sleep apnea. help?
i recommend seeing a physician trained in sleep medicine. these problems can all be addressed and treated.
is it possible to have sleep apnea and insomnia?
actually it has been shown that insomnia is present in about 25% of patients with obstructive sleep apnea. once you treat the sleep apnea insomnia generally improves.
is it possible to have sleep apnea and insomnia?
sleep apnea and insomnia are 2 separate diagnoses and can be present in the same person. with sleep apnea a person stops breathing during sleep usually due to mechanical obstruction of the airway by his own tissues. this happens after induction of sleep. insomnia means trouble falling asleep or staying asleep. sleep apnea can be a type of trouble staying asleep but usually not falling asleep.
is it safe to take ionamin (phentermine) to reduce weight?
this is an appetite suppressant similar to amphetamine in structure used short-term to control weight. precautions include cardiovascular effects seizures agitation & severe anxiety & insomnia. also psychological addiction is common as well as tolerance & rebound weight gain.
it possible to have sleep apnea causing insomnia?
the frequent sleep disruption/fragmentation caused by sleep apnea can cause insomnia.
it possible to have sleep apnea causing insomnia?
it's complicated but they are different sleep disorders with different causes and treatments. one does not cause the other. see your md for a sleep study.
it possible to have sleep apnea causing insomnia?
insomnia is defined as trouble initiating maintaining or early awakening or " non restorative" sleep. sleep apnea causes multiple micro arousals leading to non restorative or unrefreshing sleep.
it possible to have sleep apnea causing insomnia?
the two are certainly related. with apnea you stop breathing and there are alterations in your sleep patterns and cycles. the apnea leads to microarousals which means you are awakened enough to get yourself to breathe. at some point you could just wake yourself up.
i have all symptoms a thyroid issue tests say im fine what else could it be? bad weight gain hair loss insomnia can't get out of bed not depressed
you are correct that your symptoms are consistent with low thyroid but could also be several other general medical illnesses. in my practice i recommend patients with similar symptoms consult with an endocrinologist after having had a thorough evaluation by an internist. physical exam detailed history plus lab tests should narrow done the diagnosis.
i have all symptoms a thyroid issue tests say im fine what else could it be? bad weight gain hair loss insomnia can't get out of bed not depressed
how are the rest of your labs? autoimmune diseases may present with your symptoms but these are frequently picked up on blood work abnormalities. . also is your hair loss patchy with visible bald spots or diffuse? any joint swelling or pain? sensitivity to sunlight or cold?
i have sleep apnea what is the safest dosage of trazodone for insomnia?
i am concerned when sleep apnea and sleeping meds are used in the same sentence. you don't mention if your apnea is being treated. do you routinely use a cpap? why the insomnia? things to consider include caffeine intake regular exercise bedroom darkness temperature. consult with the sleep specialist who diagnosed your apnea for advise with the insomnia. they know the severity of your apne.
i have sleep apnea what is the safest dosage of trazodone for insomnia?
generally the lowest dose to provide the desired effect.
i have sleep apnea what is the safest dosage of trazodone for insomnia?
long term studies do not support use of trazodone is not supported cbti is best long term for insomnia sleep study with adequate pressure has to be determined.
i think i have hypothyroidism my symptoms are insomnia weight gain and constipation. please tell me how i can relieve my constipation.?
insomnia isn't typically a sign of hypothyroidism but clearly something is going on to give you all these symptoms. certainly you should see your doctor for an evaluation. that should help you and your doctor to figure this out. feel better!
i think i have hypothyroidism my symptoms are insomnia weight gain and constipation. please tell me how i can relieve my constipation.?
i agree with my colleagues about the need for a full medical evaluation of your concerns. if you do have hypothyroidism there are helpful treatments -- but selecting the best path requires investigation. in the meantime you can try some basic things. check any med side effects. make sure you're drinking enough liquids and eating enough roughage/fiber (veggies fruits etc). prunes may help.
i think i have hypothyroidism my symptoms are insomnia weight gain and constipation. please tell me how i can relieve my constipation.?
treating the thyroid problem can help.
i think i have hypothyroidism my symptoms are insomnia weight gain and constipation. please tell me how i can relieve my constipation.?
if you have hypothyroidism see your physician for needed exams. also there are effective treatments.
if i am taking lamictal would be harmful if i started taking diet pills such as 3 or fastin (phentermine)?
diet pills such as these can make you feel more anxious and agitated and in some cases could lower your seizure threshhold. not advisable in any case. and if the lamictal is for a mood disorder diet pills could also lead to insomnia and further destabilization. please talk with your own physician before using any over the counter medicine or supplement.
im allergic to ibuprofen is that ingredient in slim quick for woman?
there's no ibuprofen in slim quick. watch out for palpitations blood pressure and insomnia because it does contain caffeine green tea and yerba matte. if you have other health problems or are taking medications make sure there's no interactions. ingredients can be found here: <link>
if i take ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) could one of the side effects make me feel like i can't breath?
ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) stimulates beta-adrenergic receptors and releases norepinephrine. adverse reactions are insomnia nausea headaches dizzines s anxiety palpitations tachycardia. the question is why are you taking it.? this is not a drug that you should be doing without physicians oversight. please see your physician.
is this hyperthyroidism? symptoms include: insomnia weight loss eczema-chin hunger tsh: 1. 51 strong tremors anxiety polyuria weak upper str.
if your tsh is 1. 51 then you are not hyperthyroid. i would see your doctor and ask him to evaluate you in person - he will probably want to order labs to rule out diabetes which can cause weight loss and polyuria. if you have underlying anxiety that can cause your tremors and insomnia. find a doctor you are comfortable with and make an appt.
who are the people that can use adipex or ionamin (phentermine)?
adipex & ionamin ( generic is phentermine) appetite suppressants are used short term (3-6 wks) for obese people exercising and eating a low-calorie diet. don't take if pregnant over 65 or are on certain drugs. risks are high-pulmonary hypertension & valvular heart disease - g. i. and other cardiac symptoms insomnia headaches occur. fda controlled check www. ncbi. nlm. nih. gov/pubmedhealth/pmh0000.
increasing headaches ab pain lower back pain insomnia black-green throat discharge skin crawling rashes stool neg parasites severe weight loss?
mindy. you need to have a good workup because there are too many thins wrong for an internet answer. if this is chronic also rule out fungal sinusitis and check your immune system.
i would like more information on phentermine 37. 5mg the pros and cons on it. ?
phentermine is a stimulant appetite suppressant that has an increasing amount of data regarding its use and effectiveness. initially approved decades ago it has an indication for short term appetite suppression and weight loss. with a low calorie diet it can be helpful but does not burn calories it only suppresses appetite. side effects are very similar to caffeine:+ heart rate bp insomnia.
what side effects can i produce if i take thyroid hormones to lose weight?
including anxiety heart problems insomnia and more. it is not a safe or effective means of long term weight loss. to lose weight and keep it off you need to change diet and lifestyle habits for the rest of your life. a program that cannot be maintained indefinitely is unlikely to result in sustained long term weight loss. weight watchers is one of the best programs out there.
what is sleep apnea?
if you have symptoms such as insomnia snoring hypersomnia excessive daytime sleepiness obesity asian race cognitive deficits mood disorders htn etc increase the chance of sleep apnea rule out other causes could be medical genetic long sleeper etc.
what are the side affects of phentermine?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
insomniac/depressive just given 5mg saphris (asenapine) / night + 100mg elavil / day (taken for 1yr). need to stop binge eating at nite. would early dosage help?
both of these medications can give you the munchies. you didn't mention if you binge eat before or after you take these medications. neither of these is fda approved as a sleep medication. saphris (asenapine) is an atypical antipsychotic approved for bipolar disorder and schizophrenia - not insomnia. i would make sure i have a clear understanding from your doctor about your exact diagnoses and your rx.
is sleep apnea a common condition everyone should be tested for?
no just individuasl who are are risk. people who stop breathing during sleep who snore excessively who have insomnia or who wake up with headaches may fall into that category. your physician can determine if you need referral to a sleep specialist.
is sleep apnea a common condition everyone should be tested for?
if you have symptoms such as insomnia snoring hypersomnia excessive daytime sleepiness obesity asian race cognitive deficits mood disorders htn etc increase the chance of sleep apnea.
i feel fully awake and i cannot sleep at all. is it possible to have sleep apnea and insomnia together?
have upper airway resistance that way your autonomic nervous system prevent you from falling sleep since you stop breathing while you sleep. it is like an alarm prevent you from danger.
i feel fully awake and i cannot sleep at all. is it possible to have sleep apnea and insomnia together?
sleep apnea is a cause for insomnia.
i'm just wondering if you take hydroxycut do you have a chance of catching liver disease?
but for sure you may be restless jittery irritated be constipated have an increased heart rate have insomnia even seizures have elevated bp. liver damage? i am not aware of it! .
i take prozac and have been taking duromine 30 for the past 2 weeks is this safe and can i also take xanax (alprazolam) or valium at night for anxiety?
duromine (phentermine) is a stimulant which can lead to worsened anxiety and insomnia. it can also cause or worsen depression. similar to ativan and xanax (alprazolam) this medication can be habit forming tolerance and dependance can occur and a vicious cycle may set in. the question is best answered by the prescribing physician.
i need to know what's an appetite suppressant that i can take at night without getting insomnia from it?
i am not providing a direct answer to your question - am offering a different solution. consider weekly ear (auricular) acupuncture combined with decreased carbs mindful eating and exercise. it provides superior appetite supression. it doesn't cause insomnia.
i have been diagnosed with sleep apnea but i don't know what kind. i generally only sleep one to two hours a night. what is this?
inadequate sleep can be habitual or pathological. slept apnea has nothing to go with the hours one sleeps but rather us a measure of the anatomical collapse of the airway during sleep. get a diagnosis to differentiate sleep apnea from insomnia.
what are the usual side effects of phentermine?
side effects: insomnia dry mouth euphoria jitteriness palpitations rapid heart rate constipation etc.
what are the side effects of taking phentermine?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
i'm 18 with chronic anxiety bad sleep apnea and always struggled getting sleep my grandma got dementia at 55. am i going to get dementia?
insomnia alone is not causal of dementia but long term use of hypnotics is. ask a doctor to find non-hypnotic sleep aids for you. also rbd (rapid eye movement behavior disorder) in men is very associated with lewy body dementia. it's not insomnia rather powerful dreaming and not likely what your grandma suffered. so get help with the anxiety & apnea avoid hypnotics and try to rest easy!
is it possible to have insomia and sleep apnea?
you can have sleep apnea and insomnia. often complaints of insomnia are the initial clue to the presence of sleep apnea. it's frequent that when the apnea is treated the insomnia resolves. sleep hygiene is an important component of treating both disorders.
is it possible to have insomia and sleep apnea?
usually the mild obstructive sleep apnea cause fragmented sleep and insomnia more than the severe sleep apnea. the reason is in sleep cases the patients will be very sleepy to have insomnia whereas with mild sleep apnea the patient will snore snort gasp and then wakes up frequently and has insomnia. but the insomnia can happen at any degree of the sleep apnea.
is it possible to have insomia and sleep apnea?
while it may seem counterintuitive insomnia is a symptom of sleep apnea.
is insomnia a symptom of sleep apnea?
insomnia is most often thought of as both a sign and a symptom that can accompany several sleep medical and psychiatric disorders characterized by a persistent difficulty falling asleep and/or staying asleep or sleep of poor quality.
is insomnia a symptom of sleep apnea?
yes it is a prominent symptom.
is insomnia a symptom of sleep apnea?
they may be independent of each other. sleep apnea can certainly lead to insomnia due disturbed sleep.
is phentramine safe for weight loss?
considered fda approved(for whatever that's worth). it has real adverse effects including increased heart rate blood pressure insomnia dry mouth constipation and nervousness. many stimulants have either failed to receive fda approval or been removed from the market after initial approval related to safety concerns. it should only be used if absolutely necessary.
is phentramine safe for weight loss?
phentermine is a stimulant agent very similar to amphetamines and meth. it is potentially addictive causes insomnia anxiety tremor sweating and high blood pressure. other drugs like it have been shown to increase heart attacks strokes and sudden cardiac death. i would not recommend this agent. diet and exercise should be first line and there are other drugs available if those don't work.
what are some of the toxic effects caused by consuming the artificial sweetener splenda?
head aches insomnia funny taste in mouth weight gain! (not a typo they can make you gain weight! ) loss of libido memory loss mood swings and on and on. some people tolerate splenda and other artificial sweeteners without any obvious short term problems. nobody really knows what will happen after using them for 50 years or more. choose your poisons carefully!
what are some of the side effects of weight loss drugs?
it depends on which drugs you mean. in the case of what are called stimulants such as phentermine or adipex the side-effects can be substantial and significant and may include jitteryness insomnia anxiety agitation depression and even psychosis and paranoia. one needs to carefully weight the risks and benefits of any treatment with the risks and benefits of not having the treatment.
what does it feel like to have major respiratory conditions such as sleep apnea asthma or any other respiratory conditions?
some symptoms of sleep apnea include: loud and chronic snoring choking snorting or gasping during sleep long pauses in breathing daytime sleepiness no matter how much time you spend in bed waking up with a dry mouth or sore throat morning headaches restless or fitful sleep insomnia or nighttime awakenings going to the bathroom frequently during the night waking up feeling out of breath.
what is the use for phentermine 37. 5 mg?
phentermine is in the amphetamine class of drugs and is used to suppress the appetite. it works in the bran to decrease hunger and it may also increase metabolism. it is indicated for short term use for treatment of obesity when combined with exercise and behavioral modification. common side effects include insomnia dry mouth constipation elevated heart rate and agitation.
insomnia frequent waking very heavy snoring unrefreshing sleep fatigue every day. sleep study confirms no sleep apnea present. what could it be?
upper airway resistance syndrom most of the time this diagnosis is missed by sleep studies. have them compare your rdi to ahi if it is almost double you have issue even though your ahi is very low and your oxygen saturation is above 90%.
insomnia frequent waking very heavy snoring unrefreshing sleep fatigue every day. sleep study confirms no sleep apnea present. what could it be?
was this an overnight witnessed sleep study? snoring solutions: avoid sleeping on your back ( sew a tennis ball into a pocket on the back of a t-shirt) lose weight see and ent to be sure there aren't any nasal obstructions take medication for allergies use breathe rite strips have a dentist custom make an oral appliance.
insomnia frequent waking very heavy snoring unrefreshing sleep fatigue every day. sleep study confirms no sleep apnea present. what could it be?
in patients that snore and have frequent awakenings with nonrestorative sleep the diagnosis is often uars (upper airway resistance syndrome) which is in the similar spectrum to apnea. often devices such as snore guards (one such is snore rx) and treating nasal congestion (theraventsnoring breathright nasal sprays) can be helpful. see sleep specialist if not getting answers you need.
i am taking diet pills and losing about 4kls for 2wks. lately i've been sleeping late. now i become insomiac. do u think diet pills cause this?
i don't know which diet pills you are taking but many contain stimulants. these can definitely be a cause for insomnia.
i'm scared i'm 18 with sleep apnea low t chronic stress insomnia and very short - 5'8. this stunted my growth? i also have a small penis 5 inches.
consult with your doctor to rule out any medical issues if you are cleared visit with a clinical psychologist who can help you cope with these various stressors. you are very troubled give yourself the chance for a better life by opening up to a qualified therapist. my best.
i'm scared i'm 18 with sleep apnea low t chronic stress insomnia and very short - 5'8. this stunted my growth? i also have a small penis 5 inches.
if you take treatment for sleep apnea and sleep atleast 8 hours a night there is still a slight chance that your growth will improve may be till age 21. usually by age 18 or so the final growth height has been decided but treating it is very important.
what were the common sides effects seen in the qsymia (phentermine and topiramate) study? were there any uncommon but serious side effects?
phentermine+topiramate: numbness dry mouth constipation colds/bronchitis acidosis headaches insomnia dizziness nausea backpain blurred vision fatigue high potassium depression anxiety hair loss reflux and man many more. . and rare but serious ones: allergic reaction high blood pressure heart valve disorders tremors psychosis pancreatitis liver failures. consult doc. good luck.
insomnia for a year tried herbal medicine and other medications. nothing works. no sleep apnea normal lft please help?
check for upper airway resistance syndrome. in most cases this has been missed in diagnosis since the ahi on sleep test come normal and the oxygen saturation also in normal level. the best indication for that have them check your odi and compare that wit your ahi. if the odi is elevated more than 2x of ahi his may indication of upper airway resistance.
insomnia for a year tried herbal medicine and other medications. nothing works. no sleep apnea normal lft please help?
your problem is chronic. it is clear you've had some evaluation and it appears you have had a sleep study. you should really see a sleep specialist who can work through what might be the underlying cause(s) and a trial of treatments. could try a bedside journal if your mind races. avoid alcohol and tobacco before bed. try massage or relaxation therapy if available. try consistent bed time.
insomnia for a year tried herbal medicine and other medications. nothing works. no sleep apnea normal lft please help?
your sleep doc can run actigraphy to objectively document your sleep pattern your answers to your sleep questionnaires at your last sleep study should be used to compare with your actual overnight sleep pattern to rule out paradoxical insomnia. your sleep doctor should know then whether a psychiatric referral may be in order or a sleep psychologist referral.
where can i get ephedra diet pills online?
anyone can google ephedra diet pills and get the answer to that question. but bad choice; lots of side effects some may be serious or even life threatening; including palpitations abnormal heart rhythms irritability insomnia high blood pressure stroke heart attack poor blood flow to kidneys bowel. speed-like drug temporary fix. unless you change diet "lifestyle" you will regain it all.
i have a rapid weight gain swelling heart palpitations shortness of breath from high b12 levels. how can i lower this and how long will it take?
your symptoms are not from b12 toxicity. 1st b12 toxicity is rare. 2nd if you do happen to become toxic then your symptoms would be numbness/tingling in the hands ; face panic attacks insomnia and maybe rashes. if you already have an overactive thyroid or mitral valve disease then b12 toxicity may make those worse. dyspnea would result from worsening mitral disease but you'd lose weight.
what are the side effects of using diet pills if your under 18? im under 18 and i would like to use diet pills. will it harm my health to use them?
is your bmi 30 or above and if you've been unsuccessful with diet and exercise alone it would be reasonable to add appetite suppressants to a physician supervised program of proper nutrition and adequate exercise. it also depends on other health conditions you have and medications you may be on. side effects include increased heart rate insomnia dry mouth constipation. talk to your doctor!
whats the signs of withdrawl of norcotics period like how can u tell someone is going threw it? wat can b done? adult wise. n is weight loss involed?
some signs of withdrawal are: - body aches - shaking - nausea/vomiting - insomnia - diarrhea getting over withdrawal there is a decrease in the intensity of their signs and symptoms. to get over the symptoms nsaids like ibuprofen/motrin can help with body aches benadryl (diphenhydramine) can help with insomnea and nausea. immodium helps diarrhea. your dr. also help. hospitalization sometimes is needed.
whats the signs of withdrawl of norcotics period like how can u tell someone is going threw it? wat can b done? adult wise. n is weight loss involed?
agitation anxiety muscle aches insomnia runny nose sweating yawning decreased tearing. later signs include abdominal pain nausea vomiting diarrhea dilated pupils sweating goose bumps. one could have weight loss due to not eating because of abdominal pain and diarrhea. narcotics withdrawal is unpleasant but not life threatening.
if you have sleep apnea is ativan or klonopin (clonazepam) a better choice for sleep. right now i take klonopin (clonazepam). thoughts on trazadone for sleep.
and apnea are classified in the category of dyssomnias. these are sleep disorders associated with excessive sleepiness as a result of difficulty initiating or maintaining sleep. treatment for apnea is cpap. ativan and klonopin (clonazepam) are the same group (benzos) and equally effective for short term treatment for insomnia. trazodone is often used for sleep but can not be effective without depression.
if you have sleep apnea is ativan or klonopin (clonazepam) a better choice for sleep. right now i take klonopin (clonazepam). thoughts on trazadone for sleep.
the most effective treatment for sleep apnea is cpap/autopap. benzodiazepines ;#40;ativan klonopin valium xanax;#41; although effective are not indicated and may affect respiratory center. trazodone is a very good alternative as well as benadryl or vistaril for their decongestant effect. ambien or lunesta (eszopiclone) can help early insomnia. please have a breathing disorder specialist prescribe a cpap trial.
if you are treated for sleep apnea with a cpac machine can you still use a benzo for sleep. am ocd/bipolar and have been using klonopin (clonazepam) or ativan years?
use cpap and benzo. positive airways pressure (cpap). it involves the use of a home-sleeping device that fits over the nose and applies continuous positive pressure into the airway to keep it open. benzodiazepines provide short-term relief from insomnia. adding a sleep hygiene lifestyle and behavior changes to the mix could improve your sleep.
is taking phentermine healthy when taking pills for hypothyroidism?
if hypothyroid will need thyroid medication. it will be okay to take phetermine. mildful that if you take more thyroid medication and become hyperthyroid you could have increased palpitations or heart rate jittery hypertension and insomnia. also they are not to be takingthem at the same time. synthyroid to be taking 1 before any other med or food. it is not advisable take synthroid (thyroxine) for weightlos.
what are symptoms of elevated prolactin. mine is 57. i have insomnia brain fog headaches anxiety weight gain. on orthocyclen which is culprit?
elevated prolactin can cause irregular periods infertility problems and lactation but more often there are no symptoms. if you have a tumor in the pituitary tumor causing the elevation of prolactin then you may possibly have headache. usually the tumors are very small and cause no symptoms
what are symptoms of elevated prolactin. mine is 57. i have insomnia brain fog headaches anxiety weight gain. on orthocyclen which is culprit?
women — when a high blood prolactin concentration interferes with the function of the ovaries in a premenopausal woman secretion of estradiol the main estrogen decreases. symptoms include irregular or absent menstrual periods infertility menopausal symptoms (hot flashes and vaginal dryness) and after several years osteoporosis. high prolactin levels can also cause milk discharge of breast.
with fastin (phentermine) does anybody know about the long-term side effects?
palpitations insomnia temperamental and grinding of teeth.
what are the risks of taking adipex?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
what are the risks of taking adipex?
insomnia elevated blood pressure headaches irritability and others. the medication has an addiction risk.
what are the risks of taking adipex?
the side effects of using phentermine are those that accompany the use of stimulants. it is comparable to coffee. too much causes anxiety headaches insomnia etc. these problems are minimized because of the prescription protocol used by our medical professionals. the “start low go slow” approach that is used when prescribing medicine for chronic conditions works well in treating obesity also.
i have been prescribed antipsychotics for sleep gained weight on them psych won't change it my pcp wants to try appetite suppressants what is that?
psychiatric diagnosis is adhd there are other avenues to address insomnia than atypical antipsychotics. i use them a lot but i consider the antipsychotics to be big guns. have you been tried on alternative medicines for sleep? do you use good sleep hygiene? retire ; rise same time each day. keep bedroom dark ; cool ; use only for sex ; sleep. turn off tv. no naps. exercise regularly but not in.
which other problems could be mistaken for sleep apnea?
hypersomnia idiopathic type chronic insomnia lack of adequate sleep tiredness fatigue add like s/sx being obese can increase suspicion for sleep apnea.
what is phentermine and should it be used for losing weight? ? safe?
it is a stimulant and appetite suppressant. it can increase blood pressure. common side effects are palpitations dry mouth and insomnia. to be used safely it should be used for short periods of time under close physician supervision.
insomnia and obesity are my problems. what do i do?
see if he/she will get your hormones checked and order a sleep study. a nutritionist can help w/weight. gradual lifestyle changes including some form of exercise can help but please do it under supervision. peace and good health.
is it safe to take wellbutrin (bupropion) with the new popular "fat burning" supplement shredz?
there is no data looking at taking wellbutrin (bupropion) with an overthecounter supplement. neutraceuticals like shredz do not tell the exact amounts of ingredients b/c they are not monitored by the fda. it does contain caffeine and green tea extract which can act as a stimulant of the central nervous system. thus shredz combined with stimulation from wellbutrin (bupropion) may cause increased anxiety and insomnia.
i have mild sleep apnea and the cpap machine hasn't improved my symptoms. i still wake up tired unrefreshed and fatigued. what could be causing this?
please see your pulmonologist it could be something as simple as readjusting your pressure support on your machine. the other consideration is pristiq (desvenlafaxine) causes insomnia and fatigue is one of its side effects. i have a you patients have suffered from this. please see your doctor for follow up it's important.
i can't lose weight on zyprexa (olanzapine) given for insomnia from childhood torture i lose the weight while off anti psychotics will ga medicaid pay dietitian?
zyprexa (olanzapine) does increase appetite (and so do most other neuroleptics by antagonizing the dopamine in your brain) a dietitian may not be able to help; consider optimizing your sleep rx. if zyprexa (olanzapine) happens to be the only reasonable choice at least stay away from all products containing fructose (like high fructose corn syrup) and limit your carbohydrates intake.
is phentermine safe for weight loss.
phentermine prescribed by a physician trained in bariatrics (weight loss medicine) is used in a safe manner in low risk patients and is generally well-tolerated. common side effects include dry mouth nervousness insomnia and an increase in heart rate. it is not appropriate to prescribe without a full evaluation of a patient and should not be used for pts. with heart or psychiatric problems.
i just took 2 pills of ambien (zolpidem) to overcome my insomnia. i also have moderate obstructive sleep apnea. how safe is this dosage 20 mg.
your history and oversose on ambien (zolpidem) are both bad for sleep tablets used with a pt with osa. seek medical attention as it suggests on the label as well as a better discussion of your med history and med issues with your past and future ambien (zolpidem) prescribers
i just took 2 pills of ambien (zolpidem) to overcome my insomnia. i also have moderate obstructive sleep apnea. how safe is this dosage 20 mg.
may be a problem. seek advice of doc who prescribed the medication.
i just took 2 pills of ambien (zolpidem) to overcome my insomnia. i also have moderate obstructive sleep apnea. how safe is this dosage 20 mg.
fda doesn't recommend dosage above 10mg. i would recommend seeing a sleep specialist or someone trained in cbt for insomnia if you are having to use higher than recommended dosages.
i have sleep apnea and insomnia. have a somnadentt doesn't help what else?
visualization of getting heavier and heavier sleepier and sleepier with gradual muscle relaxation will work. you can make a tape of your voice of a scene you like or buy one and try it. go to bed at the same time and dont drink alcohol or lots of caffeine beforehand. good luck.
i have sleep apnea and insomnia. have a somnadentt doesn't help what else?
depends on how bad your sleep apnea is if it is moderate to severe than you may consider a cpap over a somnodent. also depending on how bad your insomnia is if your osa is controlled you may consider a trial of cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia. if you don't have a cbti specialist near you there are some cbti courses online such as sleepio or shuti
whats the real truth about aspartame and is it ok to eat foods that contain it?
potential problem with individuals phenlketonuria. may cause or aggravate insomnia in elderly.
is there any significant difference in effectiveness and side effects between armodafinil/ nuvigil and modafinil/ provigil for narcolepsy/sleep apnea?
side of the provigil molecule. efficacy & side effects are the same. see <link> provigil now comes in a generic form. nuvigil may last a little longer causing more risk of insomnia. both are fda-approved for narcolepsy obstructive sleep apnea for the 30% of cpap or bipap users who don't respond optimally to their use alone & shift worker disorder.
what is the best diet pill to use?
under a doc's supervision a well tolerated and generally safe one i use in my practice is phentermine (adipex). have your blood pressure (bp) checked before and during treatment as increase in bp heart rate insomnia headache and nausea are common. it works by suppressing your appetite. you take it in the morning after breakfast. expect roughly 8-10 lb wt loss over 3 months.
i've been prescribed duromine 40mg because i've gained 20kg in a yr but it's not uncommon for me to get anxiety. should i just avoid the medication?
duromine can cause restlessness and insomnia so i believe you take it in the day---you could stop it for a few days and see if your anxiety got better----however a lot of times folks deal with their anxiety by eating too much----so you would have to work some of it out in psychotherapy----seeing how you got overweight to start with-----best take up some sport or excercise---hope this helps---sid k
i'm 20yrs old 89kg & 170cm prescribed 40mg duromine will this make me anxious? is it dangerous? is there a high probability of side effects?
phentermine also marketed with the brand name duromine is an appetite suppressant which has a good track record of safety and usefulness. the most common side effects are similar to caffeine- nervousness palpitations insomnia and many people also get dry mouth and constipation. because like all drugs there are occasional more severe side effects it should be used only if really necessary
what risks are associated with taking weight loss pills?
most weight loss pills do not work in the long run and thus i would not recommend it. it would be better to modify your diet and pursue a regular exercise program including weight training to lose weight. even more important than weight is physical fitness. since most weight loss pills have stimulants as ingredients it may make you more tense and cause insomnia not to mention faster heart beat.
what happens if you over dose on green tea diet pills?
overdose of green tea (usually extract) may lead to irritability insomnia irregular or rapid heart rate muscle twitching nausea vomiting diarrhea abdominal cramps liver damage trouble breathing dizziness fever confusion hallucinations diuresis seizures loss of consciousness ; even death.
what do you suggest if i'm an insomniac who has night terrors and maybe sleep apnea?
have an md perform a thorough evaluation including a witnessed overnight sleep study to determine if you have central or obstructive sleep apnea. a proper diagnosis is essential before the appropriate treatment can be provided.
what is it like to take the weight lost pill adipex 37. 5 (phentermine 37. 5)?
phendimetrazine is in the amphetamine class of drugs and is used to suppress the appetite. it works in the bran to decrease hunger and it may also increase metabolism. it is indicated for short term use for treatment of obesity when combined with exercise and behavioral modification. common side effects include insomnia dry mouth constipation elevated heart rate and agitation.
what is phendimetrazine diet pill?
phendimetrazine is in the amphetamine class of drugs and is used to suppress the appetite. it works in the bran to decrease hunger and it may also increase metabolism. it is indicated for short term use for treatment of obesity when combined with exercise and behavioral modification. common side effects include insomnia dry mouth constipation elevated heart rate and agitation.
what would happen if i took ritalin (methylphenidate) with phentermine at the same time?
phentermine and ritalin (methylphenidate) are both stimulant drugs and should not be taken together. this can cause dangerous elevation in heart rate and blood pressure causing acute stress on the heart. severe agitation and insomnia can also occur.
would hiatal hernia cause heavy chest/short breaths and insomnia? i always get to sleep fine but wake up several times in the early morning. x-ray?
only if it is a rather large hernia that is compressing on your heart and lungs. a chest x-ray wouldn't be a bad start but i assume that's how it was diagnosed. good luck hope this helped.
my friend is 55 and postmenauposal. in the last two months she has lost 15 lbs without dieting and developed total insomnia- though her life is stable?
get some lab pap smear breast exam colonoscopy (we start at age 50) if smoker get chest ray or ct of chest.
my friend is 55 and postmenauposal. in the last two months she has lost 15 lbs without dieting and developed total insomnia- though her life is stable?
my first thought is hyperthyroidism. while there are certainly other possibilities this may be the most common. she should have this looked into.
my friend is 55 and postmenauposal. in the last two months she has lost 15 lbs without dieting and developed total insomnia- though her life is stable?
unintentional weight loss here is of a concern. menopause should not cause wt loss. it may interfere with sleeping on/off because of the random hotflushes.
what can i do for insomnia from a diet pill?
are stimulants as you are now painfully aware. my advice stop taking the diet pills. the effect should wear off and you will have a better nights sleep tomorrow. i would advise against trying to take another medication tonight to try to sleep. relax take deep breaths close your eyes in a dark room. good luck.
what can i do for insomnia from a diet pill?
i suggest that you reduce your exposure to computer screens and television before bed. read and turn on some quiet music or a fan (or get a white-noise app on your phone). try some herbal tea and make sure the room is cool and comfortable when you try to sleep. if that doesn't help soon talk to your prescribing doctor.
what can i do for insomnia from a diet pill?
sleep hygiene. avoid laying bed in the day time no naps turn off external stimulators excercise 3-4 hours before bedtime go to bed at regular time try hot shower before bed time and take diet pill early in the morning. if symptoms persist after a week of diet pill and implementation of sleep hygiene may discuss alternative therapy for weight loss with your doctor.
i'm currently taking prozac (fluoxetine) 40mg i just got put on adipex can these two drugs be taken together?
i commend you for your concern about effects of medications. prozac 40 mg/day is for moderately severe to severe depression. this dose with long duration of use can cause many side effects. adipex is a stimulant like amphetamine. both medications can cause anxiety restlessness insomnia and lack of libido. use relaxation music meditation yoga. see a psychiatrist for therapy and medication.
i want to know if zopliclone causes weight gain and if is better than valium. i can't sleep and i have a bipolar disorder.
i admire you for your concern for health. irregular periods weight gain and insomnia are likely due to stress causing anxiety and depression. you have been taking hiderax(atarax) which helps with anxiety and causes sedation. valium is for anxiety and is habit forming. in some people zopliclone can cause weight gain. see a psychiatrist for diagnosis medication; therapy for anxiety and depression
i have been prescribed 5 mg and then increased to 10 mg ambien. it keeps me awake if not only allowing me 1 to 3 hours sleep then awake. can this be from gastric bypass or need 15 ambien or a better med? taking 200 zoloft and 60 latuda (lurasidone) q day.
both zoloft and latuda (lurasidone) can cause drowsiness yet you are awake at night. review with prescribing doctor to consider changing timing of when you take these meds stopping ambien. for more info on insomnia see: <link>
is it okay if i take benadryl (diphenhydramine) at night if i take adipex in the morning. i don't have trouble sleeping. i am just having a reaction to new soap?
benadryl (diphenhydramine) can help with allergic reaction to new soap. adipex is a stimulant used for weight control along with diet and exercise. it can cause both adipex and benadyl can cause anxiety restlessness insomnia headache dizziness tremor palpitations and tachycardia. see physician for diagnosis need for adipex medication benefits and side effects dose and monitoring the medications
i am 4'10 105 pounds. i am slim build in an effort to become thin i tried hydroxycut recommend dose. can caffeine od cause throat pain? (i had other symptoms last night such as insomnia anxiety chest tightness irregular heart beat)
all the things you mentioned but so can poor diet. please see your doc because the symptoms you mention are dangerous. you also need to be evaluated for a possible eating disorder. peace and good health.
what are the dangers of low bmi?
indicates low weight & can cause anemia low bone density hormonal imbalance low functioning immune system cardiac problems low energy insomnia constipation frequent illnesses malnutrition.
i have a tsh of 2. 1 a clean ultrasound weight loss anxiety and insomnia with a left bulging eyeball maternal grandma had hashimotos any hints?
you could see an endocrinologist. there is long acting thyoid stimulating syndrome (lats) associated with bulging eyes but it takes sophiticated testing. this may not be related to the thyroid at all.
i was bulimic for a long time as a teenager. now as an adult losing weight is almost impossible. i've had three kids exercise and eat right. help?
commend yourself for exercise and eating right! i understand your frustration for not losing weight thank you for informing about insomnia and depression. at age 24 stresses of taking care of 3 kids relationship work and finances can cause insomnia and depression do not think a lot about weight focus on blessings and wonders of your body and its healing power! see psychiatrist for therapy.
i have pcos what is the best diet and exercise plan? i travel for work so i constantly have to eat at restaurants. any advice? i feel like im ganning to much weight.
for weight loss you will require a program which specializes in this discipline. a useful medication is phentermine 37. 5 mg once a day am. one of the side effects may induce insomnia and the dose is reduced by half. another problem may induce hypertension. pcos or polycystic ovarian syndrome is a common hormonal disorder in women that with interferes with the growth and release of eggs from the ovaries or ovulation. it is the most common cause of infertility among women. pcos occurs when a woman's body overproduces sex hormones called androgens. the hormone imbalance prevents fluid-filled sacs in the ovaries from breaking open and releasing mature eggs. the fluid-filled sacs bunch together causing many tiny cysts. symptoms of pcos include missed periods abnormal facial and body hair growth acne and weight gain. pcos may run in families. follow the links below to find webmd's comprehensive coverage about pcos what the symptoms are how to treat it and much more. • reduce excessive hair growth. your doctor may recommend birth control pills to decrease androgen production or another medication called spironolactone (aldactone) that blocks the effects of androgens on the skin. because spironolactone can cause birth defects effective contraception is required when using the drug and it's not recommended if you're pregnant or planning to become pregnant. eflornithine (vaniqa) is another medication possibility; the cream slows facial hair growth in women. • help you ovulate. if you're trying to become pregnant you may need a medication to help you ovulate. clomiphene (clomid serophene) is an oral anti-estrogen medication that you take in the first part of your menstrual cycle. if clomiphene alone isn't effective your doctor may add metformin to help induce ovulation. • if you don't become pregnant using clomiphene and metformin your doctor may recommend using gonadotropins — follicle-stimulating hormone (fsh) and luteinizing hormone (lh) medications that are administered by injection. another medication that your doctor may have you try is letrozole (femara). doctors don't know exactly how letrozole works to stimulate the ovaries but it may help with ovulation when other medications fail. • when taking any type of medication to help you ovulate it's important that you work with a reproductive specialist and have regular ultrasounds to monitor your progress and avoid problems. • keep your weight in check. obesity makes insulin resistance worse. weight loss can reduce both insulin and androgen levels and may restore ovulation. no single specific dietary approach is best but losing weight by reducing how many calories you consume each day may help with polycystic ovary syndrome especially if you're overweight or obese. use smaller plates reduce portion sizes and resist the urge for seconds to help with weight loss. ask your doctor to recommend a weight-control program and meet regularly with a dietitian for help in reaching weight-loss goals. • consider dietary changes. low-fat high-carbohydrate diets may increase insulin levels so you may want to consider a low-carbohydrate diet if you have pcos — and if your doctor recommends it. don't severely restrict carbohydrates; instead choose complex carbohydrates which are high in fiber. the more fiber in a food the more slowly it's digested and the more slowly your blood sugar levels rise. high-fiber carbohydrates include whole-grain breads and cereals whole-wheat pasta bulgur wheat barley brown rice and beans. limit less healthy simple carbohydrates such as soda excess fruit juice cake candy ice cream pies cookies and doughnuts. • be active. exercise helps lower blood sugar levels. if you have pcos increasing your daily activity and participating in a regular exercise program may treat or even prevent insulin resistance and help you keep your weight under control.
i have gained weight and diet and exercise aren't working. i need something like phentermine which i use to take to jump start again?
i understand your frustration. it is possible that you have stress depression hypothyroidism or other medical condition. phentermine side effects can be: • restlessness • headache • dizziness • tremors • insomnia • upset stomach • diarrhea see physician for • diagnosis and treatment • balanced diet • exercise program • phentermine effects • therapy for stresses in life
symptoms if sleep apnea?
high blood pressure fatigue and insomnia are one of the most common symptoms associated with sleep apnea. with severe conditions you can be deprived of oxygen to an extent that it may cause death. please consult your pcp for more information if you think that you have sleep apnea and ask to participate in a sleep study.
im taking atomic weight loss pills theres side effects im having insomnia horrible dreams and more. is this normal?
no this is not normal. you must see a psychologist who will work you through your current problems. have your doctor refer you!
side effects of phentermine (the weight loss drug)?
side effects: insomnia palpitations dry mouth fast heart rate headaches weight loss constipation etc.
what will happen if i take 4 green tea fat burner pills?
i don't the chemical content of each. too much caffeinated green teacan cause an increase in blood pressure for some people as well as gastrointestinal upset (nausea or vomiting) irritability or insomnia. it can interact with some medications. it could aggravate anxiety disorders diabetes & some bleeding disorders. some teas (especially black tea) contain tannic acid which if which if take
what is the safest anxiety medicine you can take with adipex. currently on prozac (fluoxetine) what could i take that won't affect each other?
i understand your need to have relief from anxiety. adipex can cause anxiety restlessness insomnia and tremors. taking prozac (fluoxetine) with adipex may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome- confusion hallucination seizure extreme changes in blood pressure coma and death. see psychiatrist for diagnosis medication benefits and side effects dose monitoring and therapy for stress in your life.
what would happen if i took a load of my thyroxine sertraline montelukast ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) and caffeine tablets? and don't say the obvious please
why are you asking this? please don't take "a load" of this stuff. a large dose of thyroxine ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) and caffeine (esp the last 2) will make you very nervous jittery palpitations insomnia. it could exacerbate other conditions. sertraline in overdose can cause similar symptoms also nausea/vomiting. possibly dangerous. what's going on? please see your doctor.
suffering from depression since teenage yrs. currently on cymbalta (duloxetine) and suffering from insomnia obesity etc what can help?
you've been suffering a long time but it's not clear whether you've consulted a psychiatrist? or has your treatment been mainly meds from your primary care doctor? i've seen many women with similar histories and often they need psychotherapy along with any useful medications. unhealed trauma is common and may perpetuate depression also. nutritional work may help as well.
substernal pain extending to rt ribs and insomnia 2 nights b/c of hiccups. related to hiatal hernia?
generally only large hiatal hernias also known as paraesophageal hernias cause these types of symtoms. an upper gi contrast study can help determine size and can be ordered by your primary care provider.
substernal pain extending to rt ribs and insomnia 2 nights b/c of hiccups. related to hiatal hernia?
immediately this needs to be evaluated.
i suffer with chronic insomnia and sleep apnea. i've taken different medications for depression anxiety and sleep many years. medications aren't work?
asleep is often associated w/anxiety while waking up early and not returning to sleep is associated w/depression. periodic waking is associated w/overall light sleep. a clinical psychologist can help w/stress management. peace and good health. natural treatment includes melatonin supplement but w/professional guidance. stop all stimulants after noon.
please explain what happens if someone takes zopiclone when they don't have sleep apnea?
zopiclone and eszopiclone are benzodiazapine receptor agonists. it is a sedative used in the treatment of insomnia. it has a half life of six hours so it is usually used for the initiation of sleep. it is recommended you see a sleep medicine specialist if you are having issues sleeping. hope that helps!
please tell me what phentermine is used for?
phentermine is in the amphetamine class of drugs and is used to suppress the appetite. it works in the bran to decrease hunger and it may also increase metabolism. it is indicated for short term use for treatment of obesity when combined with exercise and behavioral modification. common side effects include insomnia dry mouth constipation elevated heart rate and agitation.
there is a drug called ( lipo 6 black ultra concentrate ) i heared it helps to lose weight quickly i wanna know wt are the side effects of it?
possible lipo 6 black ultra concentrate side effects include headaches jitteriness nervousness irritability insomnia indigestion nausea dizziness anxiety facial flushing insomnia headache drowsiness dry mouth and an elevated heartbeat. some others also include heart attack stroke renal failure and kidney damage.
think o have sleep apnea. fatigue depression anxiety low oxygen suicide sleep deprivation weakness can't stand laziness light sleeper can't feel legs?
may affect every aspect of your life. insomnia. suicidal thoughts depression and fatigue are common in people with sleep apnea. this condition can easily be diagnosed at a sleep clinic or by using a testing device worn overnight at home. visit your pcp for consultation.
temazepam cause weight gain?
temazepam is a benzodiazepine medicine used to treat insomnia. it could be the insomnia is preventing you from losing weight for several reasons. one a hormone called leptin is secreted in the deep stages of sleep which helps to feel full during the day. second if you are not getting a good night's sleep your energy level is low making it more difficult to stay focused on eating healthy.
just starting to lose weight other drugs was on now dr ad 20mg mirtazapine to cipralex20mg clonazapam2 for insomnia appetite. how avoid weight gain?
unfortunately most psychiatric medication can result in weight gain but weight gain depends on what we eat how much we eat and how much we excersize. eat fruit vegetable healthy diet and excersize. good luck.
lost 5 lbs in last two weeks. bmi is 40 male 6'3" labs normal ct & u/sound normal. i am having withdrawls from xanax (alprazolam). not eating like i was insomnia. should i worry? gut ache when i eat bread.
don't worry about the 5 lb. weight loss over a period of 2 weeks but the discomfort from xanax (alprazolam) withdrawal. please see your doctor so he can help you safely withdraw from xanax (alprazolam).
lost 5 lbs in last two weeks. bmi is 40 male 6'3" labs normal ct & u/sound normal. i am having withdrawls from xanax (alprazolam). not eating like i was insomnia. should i worry? gut ache when i eat bread.
withdrawal from drugs like xanax (alprazolam) can cause seizures delirium even death. please contract an emergency room/department or addiction treatment center immediately to make sure you are weaning the medication in a safe way and so someone can supervise you in case of any complications
on day 73 of my menstural cycle usually a 25 day cycle. bmi is 17. 0 i have constipation dry/thinning hair insomnia distended stomach and burp a lot.
a bmi or 17 and ammenorrhea suggest metabolic issues that are not discernible without taking additional history physical examination and may be some tests. it is imperative that you see your doctor for an in-person evaluation. the reason for your excessively low weight needs to be determined.
remeron and seroquel (quetiapine). both can be sedating and both can potentially cause weight gain. does that mean doctors would usually avoid combining them?
this combination may be helpful and is not necessarily avoided. for instance a patient who is depressed has lost weight and who has insomnia may benefit from this combination. this is a great question and it points out the need for people to see doctors who have experience with these medications.
slight equilibrium issue - not real dizziness never fainted not really light headed either. 32 yrs old no known fam his non smoker slightly overweight could it be carotid artery/heart issue?
your mild imbalance can be weakness in one of your inner ear. need vestibular testing to rule it out. anxiety and insomnia can also lead to brain fog feelings.
can't lose weight i'm 135 lbs normally 120 lbs. healthy diet. i exercise starved myself thyroids are normal. could it be i am magnesium deficient?
inbility to lose weight means you need to get a resting metabolism rate done to see what you can eat to maintain weight vs lose weight. also subclinical thyroid is important to treat as well as adrenal fatigue which can cause weight gain or difficulty losing weight and vitamins. magnesium can help with insomnia anxiety muscle cramps but not with weight loss. food intolerances r a possiblity.
how does sleep apnea interfere with your sleep?
sleep apnea is when you stop breathing during sleep. this prevents you from getting into the deeper stages of sleep where you get the beneficial sleep during which the body rejuvenates. it can lead to insomnia. your blood oxygen level goes down and your heart beats faster. when you stop breathing you may wake up with a gasp struggling for air. you may not even remember this occuring.
how does obesity affect sleep?
obesity is a big risk factor for obstructive sleep apnea. with sleep apnea you do not spend adequate time in the restful stages of sleep. you then have day time sleepiness. sleep apnea also contributes to insomnia. since sleep apnea is the number one cause of high blood pressure anyone who is obese with high blood pressure probably should have a sleep study to check if they stop breathing.
had partial thyroidectomy in '96. since 2002 have continued to lose weight. diagnosed with hypo but i have all symptoms of hyper tried synthroid but it sped up the weight loss and i never stop losing adds to my severe insomnia. once i stopped taking syn
it sounds like you have had a very complicated course since your thyroidectomy. your symptoms really concern me (high cholesterol anxiety rapid pulse) and i would suggest that you should have a complete endocrinology evaluation but you may also have other issues going on. you can't be both hypo- and hyper-thyroid but there could be co-existing conditions. please notify your doctor and have a complete evaluation of your symptoms.
how can a person know if they have sleep apnea if they live alone and don't know if they snore?
there are other clues. not feeling refreshed on waking up in the morning and daytime sleepiness/fatigue despite adequate number of hours of sleep. early morning headache waking up at night with a sensation of gasping/choking. waking up during the night for no apparent reason and insomnia could be due to sleep apnea. being overweight also is a risk factor. a sleep study may be needed to confirm.
how to reduce insomnia while taking sibutramine?
i agree with dr ali. here is info on sleep hygiene. 1. keep a regular bedtime & wakening time (to include weekends). get up the same time each day regardless of what time you fell asleep. 2. make a regular relaxing bedtime routine. relaxing rituals prior to bedtime may include a warm bath or shower aroma therapy reading or listening to gentle music. 3. sleep in a dark quiet cool room on.
how to reduce insomnia while taking sibutramine?
is a diet pill that can interfere with sleep due to its stimulant effect & also effect on blood pressure. if remedies such as sleep hygiene or sleep aids are not effective consult your doctor for other options.
can you have sleep apnea and insomnia at the same time?
yes they are not exclusive in fact i see that very frequently in my practice.
can you have sleep apnea and insomnia at the same time?
the two conditions can coexist and insomnia may make treating osa more challenging. . best to be seen by a sleep specialist.
can we die during sleep peacefully if we have sleep apnea?
it is not likely someone will die from sleep apnea alone. people that have comorbid conditions such as cardiovascular disease or morbid obesity may die in their sleep from the combination of their disease and sleep apnea. patients with sleep apnea that take sedative medicines that suppress respiratory drive can die in their sleep. these types of medicines are often used to treat insomnia.
can advise what the likely side effects of phentermine are in the short-term?
side effects: insomnia euphoria weight loss palpitations tremor dry mouth loss of appetite chest pains etc.
can antidepressants and anti anxiety meds cause extreme fatigue and weight gain?
medications used to treat anxiety and depression (some of the same medications treat both at the same time others do not) have been known to cause weight gain in some patients and weight loss in others - and excessive sleep in some people and insomnia in others. it depends on the specific medication and each person’s unique chemistry and there is no predicting how it will affect each person.
can stress cause weight gain?
stress leads to a number of various changes in the body that can cause weight gain. stress increases cortisol levels which can increase the amount of weight around the waistline. also most people eat poorly under stress which increases weight. stress also causes insomnia which often leads to overeating during the day.
can someone give me a brief list of artificial sweeteners and their effects?
head aches insomnia funny taste in mouth weight gain! (not a typo they can make you gain weight! ) loss of libido memory loss mood swings and on and on. some people tolerate splenda nutrasweet saccharin and other artificial sweeteners without any obvious short term problems. nobody really knows what will happen after using them for 50 years or more. choose your poisons carefully!
can adderral make you lose weight? how well does it work?
although common side effects of adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) are a loss of appetite and weight loss the medication also has many other potential side effects some of which are quite serious. insomnia rapid or uneven heartbeats lightheadedness increased blood pressure tremors hallucinations muscle twitches headaches dizziness diarrhea or constipation sexual dysfunction and changes in mental state.
can lupus cause sleep apnea?
data on sleep disorders in luous is an area where research is lacking. but studies do suggest "sleep disorders like sleep apnea insomnia and periodic limb movements are common in lupus patients". lack of restorative sleep causes increase in inflammation which can aggravate lupus activity. it is important you discuss your sleep problems at your next rheumatologist. sleep is important for health.
hashimoto's pcos obese. watching calories and exercising. still gaining weight. gp given up. can anyone please help me lose weight? !
have pcos working slowly up to 1500 mg help 30% of women ovulate lower insulin and can help weight. with pcos your risk of a mood disorder is doubled buproprion can help and works well with metformin for weight loss but increase them both slowly. i usually give clonazepam at night for sleep while initiating buproprion b/c it can make u anxious at first and may increase insomnia.
can i have insomnia constipation and weight gain due to low magnesium?
magnesium (mg) is involved in over 300 necessary enzymatic reactions in the body. blood level could be "normal" but tissue level (where mg is active) low. eating a highly processed food diet predisposes many of us to mg deficiency. it could be worth a try to see if supplementing helps you -- can begin w/mag citrate or glycinate 150-200 mg per day w/meals. if loose stools go more slowly.
can i have insomnia constipation and weight gain due to low magnesium?
magnesium levels as well as othe lr electrolytes can cause all kind of issues mostly with muscle or heart and constipation question is what makes you think your magnesium is low?
can anxiety disorder and associated meds aggravate sleep apnea?
in general narcotics or any sedating medications (benzos for anxiety) will worsen sleep apnea as it suppresses breathing. anxiety in general may cause insomnia but should not necessarily influence sleep apnea itself. talk with your physician and sleep specialist if you're having trouble.
how effectively does zoloft (sertraline) work for anxiety insomnia and does it cause weight loss?
zoloft (sertraline) can be very effective for treating anxiety. insomnia can occur occassionally as a side effect. when that happens i usually recommend that it be taken in the morning. it can cause weight loss or gain (but weight gain is more common).
how do doctors determine if it's nocturnal panic attacks or sleep apnea?
a panic attack is a violent and unreasoning anxiety and fear. sleep apnea is when you stop breathing in your sleep. you may experience daytime sleepiness memory problems and lack of concentration. snoring and high blood pressure are frequently associated with sleep apnea. you will frequently wake up at least 3-4 times per night and may experience insomnia.
cannot quench extreme thirst. appetite decreased weight loss bruising headaches hip and leg pain along w dull ache fatigue insomnia diarrhea?
this combination of symptoms suggests possible severe illness and requires immediate medical attention. schedule appointment to see doctor as soon as possible.
could you potentially have sleep apnea and insomnia at the same time?
sleep apnea can both cause insomnia and also be associated with it as a separate disorder. sometimes treating the sleep apnea will improve the insomnia.
could you potentially have sleep apnea and insomnia at the same time?
sleep apnea can cause one type of insomnia.
can you take duromine 30 prozac (fluoxetine) and valium?
this is a question best answered by the prescribing physician. anxiety insomnia and depression can all be adversely affected by the combination. habit formation due to underlying depression as well as due to the re-enforcing effects of valium and phenermine may set in. better options are probably available.
can i take phentermine and ritilan at the same time?
both drugs are amphetamine derivatives and stimulants. alone and particularly together they will increase blood pressure cause anxiety and insomnia and can increase the risk of having a stroke. both are also addictive. i would never prescribe them together.
can you tell me treatments for restless legs syndrome insomnia and sleep apnea?
cpap will help with sleep apnea. that will usually help with restless legs too. if not there are pills for that. if insomnia persists check with an insomnia clinic for a detailed therapy plan.
can you tell me treatments for restless legs syndrome insomnia and sleep apnea?
rls is a clinical diagnosis check ferritin levels if less than 50 take iron supplementation dopamine enhancing meds help restless legs also.
does caffeine suppress appetite?
caffeine is indeed an appetite suppressant and can actually slightly increase your metabolism and may have a modest effect on weight loss but there is no hard evidence that caffeine will significantly lead to long term weight loss. also keep in mind that too much caffeine can lead to nervousness insomnia nausea elevated blood pressure and even heart palpitations. use in moderation.
does caffeine suppress appetite?
yes. caffeine may suppress your appetite for a brief time but there's not enough evidence to show that long-term it does anything in terms of help with weight loss. be cautious about using caffeine when trying to lose weight. when used in moderation caffeine is generally safe. but too much caffeine can cause insomnia hypertension nervousness nausea among other problems.
dear appetite suppressant cause insomnia?
many have stimulants in them.
dear appetite suppressant cause insomnia?
phentermine and other fda approved stimulant drugs for appetite suppressiion may cause insomnnia but have often worn off when taken in the am. if this is a problem- lower doses can be used. additionally there are other medications not yet approved specifically for appetite suppression such as topiramate and/or naltrexone that work and are non stimulant medications.
can you develop heart disease or diabetes type ii from a week or so of lack of sleep and interrupted anxious sleep? <negative_smiley>
not a direct cause of heart disease or diabetes. could worse the disease when establish. you mention you have chest pain and difficulty breathing and insomnia all symptoms of anxiety and/or depression. another possibility is asthma angina (doubt) gerd. see your physician for a better assessment through a physical and history.
can phentermine be taken while on zoloft (sertraline)?
combining ssri's with phentermine has been associated with toxic reactions described in the literature [bostwick jm brown tm. j clin psychopharmacol 1996;16:189—90]. i recommend against this combination. phentermine is a stimulant which can leads to effects like dizziness dysphoria headache insomnia overstimulation restlessness and tremor. the appetite loss effect wears off quickly too.
do doctors see a lot of patients with obstructive sleep apnea?
i do but my practice is limited to sleep disorders so there is selection bias. primary care physicians (pcp) see a lot of people complaining of difficulty falling asleep difficulty staying awake and of generally unsatisfatory sleep quality. some of these are sent to sleep centers for further evaluation and some are managed by the pcp. 10% of people suffer from insomnia; 9-24% from sleep apnea.
can chronic depression/anxiety disorder cause slow digestion overweight and permanent c hemmoroids and now gerd!? !? !
certain very common cases that include almost all of your symptoms share a common cause. sequence of events which your dr can help clarify with some studies (eg: osa or hypothyroidism etc etc might be (at least partially) responsible for fatigue/overweight-gerd/ anxiety depression/resp. obstruction/ insomnia). check with your dr. best wishes.
hello doctor. i am 34 y. o now and my weight 110 kg. recently i easy to get tired difficult to sleep always craving for food and easy to get angry?
these are all symptoms of sleep apnea. these symptoms include insomnia daytime sleepiness obesity and increased craving for food. please see your family doctor and if your family doctor concurs see a sleep disorders specialist for an overnight polysomnogram to diagnose your condition and to get adequate treatment prescribed. best wishes.
can you tell me is adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) anything like phentermine?
they're both stimulants however phentermine has a longer duration of action. they both share issues with dependency and tolerance. if u are trying medical weight loss please see a provider that specializes in this. there's a nonstimulant appetite suppressant called belviq (lorcaserin) that's worth considering. also both phentermine and adderall may result in anxiety insomnia increased heart rate & htn.
can i tell me how i can deal with sleep depravation when on a diet?
insomnia is typically brought on when a person is dieting and the brain is switching it's fuel from glucose to ketones. this can induce insomnia. the easiest way would be to make sure you have a healthy snack just prior to going to bed.
does phentermine provide benefits other than reduced appetite?
phenteramine is a stimulant and can give more energy during the daytime. the price for this is insomnia palpitations and possible constipation as well as dry mouth.
does sleep apnea make it hard to fall asleep during the night and make me fall asleep during the day?
approximately 40-60% of people with insomnia also have a sleep related breathing problem. 70% of post menopausal females with insomnia have a sleep related breathing disorder. this will make you sleepy during the day.
hypoglycemia being the most intelligent answer to my issues i see how ritalin (methylphenidate) acting as an appetite suppressant can be more dangerous for me correct?
going on here. using ritalin (methylphenidate) as an appetite suppressant can get you into big trouble with addiction rebound fatigue ; hypoglycemia. it also causes insomnia. get mthfr 677 ; 1298 genotype testing. treatment can help you with your weight loss goals make your anti-depressant work better decrease anxiety and help sleep. also gives energy during the day that is natural instead of not real.
how is it possible that diet pills work when most drs swear they don't? a friend used them & lost weight! are they harmful? will she suffer later? thnx
diet pills (appetite suppressants) work. but with time u need to keep taking more ; more of pills to get same appetite suppressing effect as initially. u can keep raising the dose to maintain your weight loss. but before u know it u will be addicted to them and they will start causing you insomnia irritability poor concentration and heart problems. so docs r right to advise against.
can a benzo cause sleep apnea and should a benzo be stopped if you develope sleep apnea?
hello. benzo's are sleep aids that may not only become addictive but also can suppress respiratory function. review their usage with your sleep specialist. other options exist for possible insomnia.
can i take my phentermine in the morning and xanax (alprazolam) at night? i would never take them at the same time but i was just wondering if this would be safe
on what you are taking the xanax (alprazolam) for. if it is for generalized anxiety disorder unless you are on a time-release preparation alprazolam is a short-acting drug and will not be working for you if you take it at night. if it is for insomnia it is not the best medication for sleep. if it is to combat the effects of the phentermine making you anxious again i would consider a longer acting drug.
does green coffee actually help you lose weight? what are its side effects?
best and only way to lose weight is to eat less and exercise more. . as yet there is no "magic pill or potion" that is safe and efficient. side effects? . generally the same as caffeine (a stimulant) jittery insomnia etc.
does diet pills really work?
coupled with a good diet and increased activity yes. diet pills generally help to curb the appetite and subsequently decrease the amount of food you eat. over an extended period of time may help lose about 8% of your excess weight. side effects may include elevated blood press fast heart rate insomnia tremors and several others. taking them doesn't offset poor eating habits.
could diet pills dehydrate your body and lead to tooth decay?
side effects of the prescription diet pills include dizziness insomnia dry mouth headache and constipation. when dry mouth without saliva tooth decay and gum disease are more likely to occur. your health care provider or your dentist can recommend appropriate treatment. take care.
how can k25 phentermine medicine works in the body and reduces weight?
phentermine is in the amphetamine class of drugs and is used to suppress the appetite. it works in the bran to decrease hunger and it may also increase metabolism. it is indicated for short term use for treatment of obesity when combined with exercise and behavioral modification. common side effects include insomnia dry mouth constipation elevated heart rate and agitation.
have been binging every morning and night. what damage can this do to me?
he consequences of binge eating disorder involve many physical social and emotional difficulties. some of these complications are: affectts if binging : cardiovascular disease type 2 diabetes insomnia or sleep apnea hypertension gallbladder disease muscle and/or joint pain gastrointestinal difficulties depression and/or anxiety electtrolyte imbalances
am i starting to get liver disease? hello. i feel short on breath. my whole chest has stabbing pains which feel like my hearts giving out. every night i take 4 tylenol pm's 2 (200 mg) ibuprofen tablets and a trazadone. is this bad? it hurts. i don't k
i cannot tell you if you have liver disease. however your constellation of shortness of breath and chest pain is not normal. it is very important to find out the source of your symptoms. there is very little history provided. don't know why you are questioning liver disease - if you drink a lot of alcohol that might be a reason. i see you take trazodone (possibly for insomnia) - don't know if you have a history of anxiety conditions like panic attacks. without a thorough history and a physical examination all i am doing is just guessing. recommend that you get a comprehensive evaluation of these symptoms.
can you take phentermine when doing a 4 protein milkshakes a day and no food diet? i have lots to lose. need a big chunk off 2 keep me motivated.
yes you could take phentermine. phentermine is an appetite suppresant that is similar to amphetamine. it has side effects including agitation elevated bp insomnia restlessness dry mouth diarrhea tremors. it is far better to exercise 4 times a day than take phentermine. and i worry about bipolar aggravation.
can somebody tell me how can k25 phentermine medicine works in the body and reduces weight?
phentermine is in the amphetamine class of drugs and is used to suppress the appetite. it works in the bran to decrease hunger and it may also increase metabolism. it is indicated for short term use for treatment of obesity when combined with exercise and behavioral modification. common side effects include insomnia dry mouth constipation elevated heart rate and agitation.
can you tell me about phentermine or adipex?
phentermine is in the amphetamine class of drugs and is used to suppress the appetite. it works in the bran to decrease hunger and it may also increase metabolism. it is indicated for short term use for treatment of obesity when combined with exercise and behavioral modification. common side effects include insomnia dry mouth constipation elevated heart rate and agitation.
any bad side effects of phentermine?
side effects: insomnia dry mouth constipation fast heart rate tremulousness euphoria headaches etc.
could i use phentermine without any health problems?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
can you tell me is adipex a bad option?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
does phen375 weight loss pills really work to lose weight fast?
phentermine is a stimulant like methamphetamine. it is addictive cause irritability anxiety sweating tremor insomnia and dry mouth. more importantly it increases blood pressure and heart rate. a similar drug called meridia was withdrawn by the fda after it was shown to cause heart attack and strokes. unfortunately the modest weight loss with phentermine and tenuate is not worth the risks.
abilify (aripiprazole) or seroquel xr? my doc is leaving it up to me. i'm adding it for mdd & also have insomnia. which would you recommend? weight gain is concern.
abilify (aripiprazole) is less likely to make u gain weight but is also less sedating in most cases. seroquel is the opposite. however at low dose seroquel would be preferable if insomnia is major concern.
anxiety can cause abdominal pain and weight loss?
common symptoms include stomach aches head aches weight loss insomnia irritability. . if your anxious more than not for an extended period of time you should seek help with a therapist psychiatrist or both. it's a serious mental health concern that's very treatable with or without medication but left untreated can lead to depression and major health issues.
can i use albuterol while on phentermine?
both drugs have the potential to cause some jitteriness rapid heart rate and insomnia so there may be some added potential with using both drugs.
do people generally lose weight with ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate)?
ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) has way too many side effects and this got it removed from the fda approved drug list so it is not legally available in the us. it increases pulse and blood pressure causes anxiety and insomnia and has been associated with severe problems in small numbers of people (heart attack stroke). studies have shown that stimulants are not good in achieving weight loss keeping it off.
how addictive is phentermine and is it safe for me to take metformin while taking it?
patients on phetermine do not develop addiction even after prolonged used as shown in studies. my experince most patients who combine phetermine with life style modification actual see a decrease in their blood pressure. common concern will be dehydration constipation initial jitteriness that wears away after a few days insomnia. hence take early in the morning increase fiber increase water
drug interactions duromine with mirtazapine can the y be taken together i would only use 1/4 of a 15mg tablet with a duromine 30mg?
phentermine is a stimulant typically prescribed to help with wt loss. it can cause anxiety in some patients. there is no interaction with mirtazapine. i would however ask your prescribing doc as whether or not you should be taking these medications together or what the risks benefits and side effects of adding duramine to your meds could be expected to be in ur case anxiety? insomnia? b well!
how long does adipex stay in your system to where the side effects will start to decrease thru out the day.
adipex has a half life of about 24 hours. it takes five half-lives to hit "steady state" and the same time to clear the medication. that means about three days. many patients develop a tolerance quickly and the side effects - and effectiveness- where's off. on average in about two months. many people get insomnia and dry mouth taking adipex. those should where off before tolerance develops
are the diet pills fastin (phentermine) dangerous to take?
under your physician supervision. like many other drugs fastin (phentermine) has many side effects: dry mouth insomnia irritability nausea vomiting diarrhea just to name a few. the excessive weight has also certain health risks. your doctor recommended this medication because the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. hope it helps.
hi 20y student have been skipping 2meals a day had exessive stomach rumbles at night in result weight loss insomnia anxiety pressure in left rib. wtodo?
but for starters it may be worthwhile eating once again healthy and regular meals as well as reducing stressors. please discuss the differential diagnosis here with your physician and pursue work-up and treatment as appropriate.
what is the best med. for insomnia. on arimidex (anastrozole) for breast cancer and can't sleep. ?
avoid coffee after 12noon excercise daily avoid day time naps try lighted rooms during the day or outdoors sleep in rooms that have no lights. get up if after 30 minutes you can not sleep. if all that fell medications like melatonin has less side effects. other meds include trazdone ambien (zolpidem)
what is the best med. for insomnia. on arimidex (anastrozole) for breast cancer and can't sleep. ?
having trouble sleeping is a common problem when you don't get a restful nite sleep you are at risk for health issues and pain is worse as well as the tendency to eat junk food. try turning off all electronic and put down the book 30 min prior to sleep. make the room cold and dark. as meds go i like elavil (amitriptyline) or amitryptline for my pts. it's an old antidepressant but at low dose helps you sleep.
can levofloxacin cause muscle atrophy?
levofloxacin can cause tendon rupture especially achilis tendon mostly in elderly. tendinitis can be caused by this. muscle atrophy has not been described. should not be used routinely in younger than 18 or above 70. caution must be exercised if qt prolongation in ecg. headache insomnia pain dizziness &fatigue are some of the side effects.
read a side effect of cymbalta is breast growth caused by hormone imbalance. does hormone imbalance (gh) from cymbalta also cause growth in height?
top 5 ae of cymbalta (duloxetine) nausea dry mouth headache somnolence fatigue. not seen as much are constipation dizziness anorexia (weight loss)insomnia diarrhea. cymb may sometimes makes people feel well enough that they may have an increase in suicidal thoughts! this is an awesome med not only for depression but also neuropathic pain. may take 10 d + to overcome ae (max 60mg 2xd)
throbbing headache at night tired feeling trouble sleeping blurry vision at times high bp no interest in anythg. diagnosed with dcis in 2012.
i understand your distress. “throbbing headache tired feeling blurry vision at times” are likely due to high b. p. which can increase further with stress. “trouble sleeping no interest in anything” are likely due to anxiety and depression. see your physician for high b. p and dcis. see psychiatrist for therapy for stresses of relationships separation loneliness insomnia and medical illness.
been diagnosed with hiatus hernia. on meds. but keep getting bad bouts sickness severe headaches major acid reflux and insomnia. wat else can i do?
elevate the head of the bed and abound eating at least two hours before going to bed. also make sure nothing else is wrong and causing your symptoms. not sure why the headache. is the hernia very large?
can you tell me how ephedra (not ephedrine) effect body organs?
ephedra consumption may include severe skin reactions irritability nervousness dizziness trembling headache insomnia profuse perspiration dehydration itchy scalp and skin vomiting and hyperthermia. more serious potential side effects include irregular heartbeat seizures heart attack stroke and death.
excessive eating/appetite no energy insomnia etc. ive got depression symptoms but i dont feel sad-im very happy! any other illness that cause these?
go see your doctor for a discussion of your symptoms and then an exam
gastroesophageal reflux occasional difficulty swallowing & heavy chest with short breaths. then came insomnia -early mornings. is this hiatal hernia?
is the insomnia and early morning awakenings coming from sharp earaches by any chance? you will need a good examination by your physician who will decide whether or not an endoscopy or other procedure are merited to find out what's up.
i got my period 3 days early and it only lasted 4 days could i be pregnant i have stomach pains sore breast always tired and dizzyness
hi. first off i need to state that i can't determine if you are pregnant or not. if you had an actual period then you are not pregnant. however with implantation of the embryo into the uterine lining there can be spotting and cramps. with that said you normally don't get classic pregancy symptoms before you miss your period. early pregnancy symptoms can include: tender or painful breasts lack of a period mild cramping frequent urination feeling tired nausea vomiting passing gas insomnia etc. if in doubt whether this was your period or spotting you can take a pregnancy test at the time that you would have had your period.
i have not got my period this month i feel nausea and i have sore breast could i be preganant
hello. if you have been sexually active without use of protection you might be pregnant. classic pregnancy symptoms usually begin at the time of the missed period or shortly there after. they can include: nausea vomiting lack of period tender or swollen breasts urinating more often abdominal enlargement headache insomnia feeling tired etc. the only way to know if you are pregnant at this time is to take a pregnancy test.
is it ok to take soya isoflavones supplement s after breast ca?
if having bad hot flashes the snri class of depression meds can help. it can't be just an ssri norepiniephrine has a tract the leads to the temp regulation center; it helps glucose transport as estrogen did. venlafaxine at 150 mg cymalta; consider clonazepam at night when start. cancer and immediate stopping of hormones is a double whammy increasing risk of mood problems insomnia stress.
cant tell if its breast pain or heart. im also mensturating at the moment. its like when you have ache. really brief. ekg xray normal to. thanks?
at your age with a negative work up it's unlikely to be the heart. the breast should not be so severe it warrants the work up. it might be a muscle strain between your ribs. it could be an esophageal spasm it's hard to say. i don't want to bring in anxiety but this may be making the interpretation worse. insomnia? with a non chest pain and neg workup up in 19 yo anxiety could exacerbate.
following breast ca i have been on zoladex (goserelin) these last 18 mths. periods stopped but last abdominal u/s showed i am still releasing follicles. how come?
you may still have small follicular cysts likely from early treatment or prior. this doesn't mean u r releasing them and ovulating however. that medication inhibits the release of hormones that stimulate the ovaries. consider venlafaxine 150 mg xl if the hot flashes are getting you and treat the insomnia as well. good luck.
nipple discharge thick white pregnancy symptom?
nipple d/c in early pregnancy. classic pregnancy sxs don’t begin until period is missed or thereafter (6-8 wks). these can include: tender /swollen breasts nausea or vomiting; lack of period; ^ frequency of urination; headaches insomnia fatigue. moodiness mild cramping food cravings ; aversions; passing gas; enlarging waist line. etc. may be ^ white milky vaginal discharge. take hpt to know.
insomnia fever rapid heartrate and feeling like i can't get enough air lightheaded dizzy?
it sounds like you may be having anxiety but the presence of fever (if verified) is a more ominous sign and could signify infection with volume depletion or worse; i would see an er doctor or urgent care quickly.
i am having troubles sleeping and anxiety. it feels like i can constantly feel my pulse throughout my body. its a nervous feeling. ideas?
are these new symptoms? initially i would suggest talking to your primary care doctor to assess why are you having anxiety insomnia etc. your next steps should be taken based on whether the cause of your sx has been established. meanwhile you can practice relaxation (you can google the script); sleep hygiene stress management to help you decrease tension. good luck!
i'm taking depakote er for bipolar and have had horrible insomnia palpitations and tremors. is this side effect or something else?
yes those has been among possible side effects of depakote er. discuss it with the person who prescribed it to see if they want to change to other mood stabilizer unless you are getting to tolerate it.
i'm taking depakote er for bipolar and have had horrible insomnia palpitations and tremors. is this side effect or something else?
any other medications taken with depakote? is it taken in am or pm? dose? .
i have a bad insonmia. is it affecting my heart? would it affect my heart rate? and what should i do.
there is acute insomnia or chronic insomnia acute insomnia is less than 3 months and chronic is more than 3 to 6 months please identify the stressor that caused this it could be move to a different time zone financial relation stress etc. google sleep hygiene you may need short term meds like ambien cognitive behavior therapy for insomnia works best according to studies.
i have a bad insonmia. is it affecting my heart? would it affect my heart rate? and what should i do.
insomnia or difficulty falling asleep is unlikely to truly affect your heart. stop all stimulants including caffeine ginseng peanuts nicotine. start a regular exercise program. stop alcohol while it may make you sleepy it messes with your sleep cycle. avoid taking daytime naps. you're less likely to be sleepy at bedtime. set a regular bedtime and try taking melatonin just before sleep.
is melatonin safe for dementia patients with afib?
the question is whether we can figure out what is the cause of insomnia in a person with dementia---at times it can be caused by sleep architecture breakdown from the illness itself; at times from poor sleep hygiene; at times from meds or alcohol; at times from a sleep disorder such as apnea; can be from depression;; so important to first try to get to the cause. .
i think i have spordaric fatal insomnia. i can't produce tears stiff neck can't feel sleepy increased pulse rate headache muscle spams. do i have it?
a work up with a sleep study and a neurologist can help.
i am perscribed medical marijuana for nausea insomnia and anxiety. when i medicate it gives me strong heart palpitations. how can i ease these?
if you developed side effect of a "medication" then please stop it and see your doctor.
i am perscribed medical marijuana for nausea insomnia and anxiety. when i medicate it gives me strong heart palpitations. how can i ease these?
i would suggest seeking out better treatment for your conditions. medical marijuana is not a legitimate treatment for anxiety or insomnia.
iv palpitations acute insomnia & perpetual joint & muscle aches?
u did not mention if u are taking any medications but i would advise getting exam and blood work by your primary care doc.
iv persistent body aches insomnia & palpitation.?
and insomnia cleary deserve evaluation work up and treatment by u pcp.
iv persistent body aches insomnia & palpitation.?
not sure if u have any medical problems u are already being treated for or what medications u r taking. recommend thorough evaluation by your primary care doc. for possible medical causes and referral to other specialists as deemed necessary depending on outcome of evaluation & workup.
i have chronic gastritis constipation palpitation and unrefreshing sleep. any solutions?
your body is obviously under a lot of stress (emotional and/or physical). i strongly recommend supplementing with magnesium (particularly effective is peter gillham's natural vitality calm) which helps specifically with musculoskeletal tension constipation cardiac arrhythmias & palpitations insomnia and anxiety. consider digestive enzymes and probiotics to aid digestion & melatonin for sleep.
is heart palpitations part of fibromyalgia? i told my dr. i was having them. he's done 2 or 3 ekgs and all were normal. also have hypothyroid.
palpitations often occur with insomnia.
is heart palpitations part of fibromyalgia? i told my dr. i was having them. he's done 2 or 3 ekgs and all were normal. also have hypothyroid.
poor sleep anxiety teeth clinching at night and hypersensitivity to normal stimuli are related to fibromyalgia. i've gotten pretty good at treating it; 1. clonazepam 1-2 mg at night for insomnia helps if you clinch teeth. 2. tramadol 50 mg work up to 200-300 mg in divided doses( helps mood and pain) 3. gabapentin 600 mg at night and 300 mg 2x per day 4. add morning provigil if still fatigu.
i am 75. a new doctor has prescribed metoprolol succ er 50mg to replace atenolol 50 mg. i now have increased insomnia. can i return to atenolol?
both beta blockers so could probably switch back but tell your physician
i am hypothyroid and on 150mcg/day levothyroxine. tsh was. 53 two weeks ago. i am still cold have low bp high heart rate depressed and insomnia.
tsh does not tell the whole story. have your doctor check free t4 and free t3 (liothyronine). those are your actual thyroid hormone levels and might more accurately reveal whether you are on enough medication or even the right medication. levothyroxine is t4 and needs to be converted to t3 (liothyronine) so a low free t3 (liothyronine) means that you are not converting. low t3 (liothyronine) can cause many of the symptoms you describe.
i had lab work done about two years ago i was told that i had low potassiun is there a link between low potassium and insomnia?
one of the potential symptoms of hypokalemia is insomnia. hypokalemia is low potassium.
i have been diagnosed with mobitz 1. i have stress probably caused by insomnia. i wonder if the mobitz 1 might disappear if i eliminate the stress. ?
stress doesn't cause mobitz type - i block. it is a electrical conductive system disorder. it could be due to degeneration of conduction circuits or due to blocks in heart arteries or medication induced. some times intermittent blocks are due to obstructive sleep apnea. consult your cardiologist.
i have been diagnosed with mobitz 1. i have stress probably caused by insomnia. i wonder if the mobitz 1 might disappear if i eliminate the stress. ?
that equation is as true as any that you can come up with. but it may not have a direct effect on the diagnosis since it is not a direct cause. i hope you've been told the good news that most mobitz type i are benign and don't require treatment. they are monitored to observe any changes but you should be okay. so deal with your insomnia and reduce the stress - try mindfulness meditation. be well.
why does welnbutin give me palapations?
wellbutrin (bupropion) "stimulates" your mind and body often alleviating depressive symptoms. insomnia and restlessness may occur and palpitations in certain people. it is always a good idea to let the doctor that prescribed the medication know about any side effects.
insomnia for a few weeks breathing problems when lying down as soon as i nod of to sleep i awake heart beating fast but a weird rhymthm? whats wrng
talk to your doc. if it persists there is also a sleep center nearby. <link>
insomnia for a few weeks breathing problems when lying down as soon as i nod of to sleep i awake heart beating fast but a weird rhymthm? whats wrng
sleep apnea is the main possibility. the airway is unstable at the sleep onset and a few other stages of sleep. minor shallowness of the breath at the onset of sleep is perceived as abnormal events by the brain then the brain wakes up a surge of sympathetic activity causes palpitations. you will need to do the sleep study at a center who pays attention to details and to minor eventscalled rera.
what are side effets of metorolol tratrate 25 mg after surgery i went into a-fib and was put on this medicine. feeling a lot of anxiety that i didn't have before. could this be caused by this medicine?
anxiety is one of the side effects of metoprolol tartrate. here is a list of central nervous system side effects listed on the package insert: headache dizziness mental depression lightheadedness concentration impaired anxiety weakness fatigue sedation somnolence or insomnia vivid dreams/nightmares vertigo paresthesia hallucination nervousness impotence/sexual dysfunction amnesia/memory impairment confusion. a link to the complete package insert with all side effects is attached below.
i'm extremely hungry all the time and i'm always tired but barely sleep. af is 2 weeks away. is it pms or eating disorder?
pms doesn't present with hunger nor does eating disorder. usually anorexic folks have aversion to food or if they eat they make themselves vomit or cause a bowel movement to purge what's been eaten. pms is moodiness bloating headaches breast tenderness. insomnia is a common symptom of many disorders.
if i take clonazepam once a week at most (0. 5 mg) for sleep will i have any problems stopping? cardiologist prescribed tachycardia causes insomnia
physician dependence will not develop taking clonazepam 0. 5mg one per week.
if i take clonazepam once a week at most (0. 5 mg) for sleep will i have any problems stopping? cardiologist prescribed tachycardia causes insomnia
physical dependence. the research on benzodiazepines shows the window of opportunity is around 6 months. after this time anxiety rebound effect is likely when trying to stop clonazepam. however from my experience not likely you will become addicted or dependent with o 0. 5 mg/week. rec. : if concerned talk to your prescribing physician for more information
i could feel my heart throbbing very fast. after that i felt like my throat "closed up". ?
is state of tension apprehension worry uneasiness or fear. it may be related to anticipated danger or arise for no apparent reason. while mild episodes of anxiety are common and do not usually require treatment more severe forms can be chronic and debilitating. symptoms of severe anxiety: insomnia chest pain nausea palpitations tremors and parasthesia. see your pcp for evaluation.
what are some things that i can do to overcome extrasystole?
sometimes they are the beginning of atrail fib. in general caffeine alcohol and food allergies can trigger them as can insomnia anxiety and rushing around. atrial wxtrasystoles are not considered as serious as ventricular ones. almost everyone has a rare or occasional extrasystole and it should be ignored.
i have insomnia n labile hypertension. on carvedilol n amlodipine. taking lexapro (escitalopram) at nite. shud i take it in morning. i have an overactive mind n dep?
how long have you had these symptoms? has your insomnia increased or decreased on lexapro (escitalopram)? also lexapro (escitalopram) can interact with many medications. do you take any other medications? i suggest speaking with your doctor. if lexapro (escitalopram) has been good for you there may be some adjustments your doctor could recommend. please speak first with your doctor about changing the timing of any of your medications.
i have insomnia can you have heart attack or stroke from insomnia in young age?
chronic sleep deprivation has many long-term adverse effects but will not cause heart attack or stroke in a young person. talk to your health care provider about sleep hygiene and ways to get better sleep. a sleep specialist may be needed.
i have insomnia can you have heart attack or stroke from insomnia in young age?
heart attack and stroke are very rare in someone so young and there is no direct relationship between heart attack & stroke and insomnia. however chronic insomnia can have many unpleasant effects. speak with your health care providers about your insomnia. perhaps improved sleep habits and better control of your anxiety will help you get a better night's sleep.
i have insomnia can you have heart attack or stroke from insomnia in young age?
insomnia often results from anxiety. it is highly unlikely that you will have a heart attack or stroke. however it is important for you to have good sleep. avoid caffeine avoid chocolate relax at night and talk to your doctor about these symptoms.
i have insomnia can you have heart attack or stroke from insomnia in young age?
i do not think so!
what med is best for anxiety and insomnia. not depressed. heart rate always high. remeron (mirtazapine) makes me fat. ?
yes it can make u fat but this depend on how much u eat what u eat and how much u exersize. in addition weight gain is very common for psychiatric medication.
what med is best for anxiety and insomnia. not depressed. heart rate always high. remeron (mirtazapine) makes me fat. ?
you should have a general medical exam if you haven't already as certain medical conditions can cause the symptoms you describe. the doctor can also advise you about meds. ssri antidepressants (prozac zoloft celexa lexapro (escitalopram) paxil) are often used for anxiety even without depression and there are many kinds of meds for insomnia. both problems can be treated without meds too.
is it ok to take circadin/melatonin together with seloken/metoprolol?
metaprolol and other beta blockers can cause insomnia which is caused by lower melatonin production in the body so taking melatonin is actually a way to improve the insomnia without causing a drug interaction
i tried to quit marijuana before and had anxiety panic attacks insomnia heart palpitions for a month them i started again what can i take to help?
where you doing any other drugs at the same time? not typical for pt to have those symptoms aftrer stopping marijuana. i would contact substance abuse program and see what resources they may have. it may be worth considering some sorl of therapy
i have severe migrains chronic insomnia & chronic anxiety an leg pain bp normal pulse runs from 118-120 resting associated? & cant find meds that work
i would strongly suggest (if not already done) to have your doctor relook at you. the resting hr is a clue that your sympathetic nervous system is in overdrive possibly. could explain rest too. as far as meds should be tried on beta blocker which likely you have. thyroid (tsh)must be checked. this is a start. good luck to you hope this helps.
i have severe migrains chronic insomnia & chronic anxiety an leg pain bp normal pulse runs from 118-120 resting associated? & cant find meds that work
lots of problems with complex mechanisms. i would see your family doctor to begin a methodical work up and trials of medications.
is it safe to switch from sodas and energy drinks to coffee?
what would be safest is to limit your caffeine to 1-2 servings per day (about 100 mg of caffeine). above that whether from coffee colas/sodas or energy drinks caffeine can increase anxiety insomnia elevate pulse and blood pressure and complicate high blood pressure etc. if you don't guess right on the equivalency you may get headaches with the switch.
i was put on atenolol(25mg daily) to control my anxiety related heart rate. i developed benign pvcs. is it possible the drug can cause this?
are you asking if atenolol can cause pvcs? it thats your question then the answer is no. atenolol is a beta blocker that is it blocks adrenalines irritating effect on the heart. thus it is actually used to treat symptomatic pvcs. caffeine insomnia stress can all precipitate pvcs.
will my side effect of a pounding heart fade away in time 'been on trazodone 2 days.
early in treatment with ssri anti-depressants an early side effect can be an increased arousal state (which can present like anxiety or insomnia or elevated heart rate). this is due to the change in neurotransmitter level in the brain and will go away usually within 1-2 weeks on a given dose. every dose increase the side effect will return&then resolve. if it is not tolerable call your doctor!
i suffer from panic attacks with history of high heart rate. last night i had shakiness dry mouth and arm pain along with it. is that normal?
anxiety symptoms are not a sign of illness they are the mind's ability to produce the "flight or fight" response which gives rise to many physiological changes include nausea sob insomnia dry mouth aphasia tremor and sweating. depending on the cause of your anxiety symptoms your health care provider can adjust your medication.
why does my heart rate rise to 110 beats per minute when i eat gluten it's normally 60?
this is a classic sign of food allergy in fact arthur coca md wrote a classic book "the pulse test " describing a fast pulse after eating a food as one of the best ways to diagnose food allergies. gluten sensitivity is an extremely common problem that can cause fatigue insomnia asthma depression anxiety etc. see <link> consider a trial of gluten avoidance for several weeks.
is it normal for buspar (buspirone) to give you extreme heart palpitations? been on it for years and has been increased recently. it wakes me from sleep sometimes
buspar - buspirone - can cause insomnia including waking up during the night. but causing palpitations is unusual. i wonder if the palpitations are part of the anxiety that you are probably being treated with buspar? if anxiety is not managed it may seem like buspar is perhaps causing it?
what type of medicine is digoxin? what are the side effects?
digoxin is a purigfied cardiac glycoside. digoxin is used in the treatment of atrial fibrillation atrial flutter and sometimes heart failure that cannot be controlled by other medication. common adverse effects: loss of appetite nausea vomiting and diarrhea. other common effects are blurred vision visual disturbance confusion drowsiness dizziness insomnia nightmares agitation depressio.
i have constant anxiety. i get hot easily pvc's insomnia indigestion and just feel panic all of the time. could this be generalized anxiety?
anxiety can come from chemical imbalances a side effect of medications external stressors too much change in too short a period of time and other areas. i would say go to a reputable psychotherapist immediately and talk about what anxiety means to you.
i have constant anxiety. i get hot easily pvc's insomnia indigestion and just feel panic all of the time. could this be generalized anxiety?
generalized anxiety panic attacks. need to check with physician to make sure these symptoms are not due to other metabolic problems (thyroid etc)
what effect can caffeine have on the body over time? im worried i consume to much and that my heart flutters are associated with my caffeine intake.
too much caffeine can give you headaches insomnia stomach pains increase urination increase heart rate. one or two cups a day is okay.
i forgot my synthroid (thyroxine) for three days could that cause me to have rapid heart rate at 3 am? i take 112 mcg 6 days a wk. no thy gland. almost went to er
taking too much synthroid (thyroxine) could give you palpitations. excessive sweating insomnia and alterations in skin sensation can occur as well. see your primary or endocrinologist they need to repeat a tsh t3 and t4.
is sominex 50mg a good alternative rather than what i'm taking now trazadone 25mg its makes my heart rate low at night i take for insomnia?
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
i stopped taking my trazadone 25mg two nights ago because of the low heart rate i only took it for a month what's a safer alternative like sominex ok?
are you sure trazadone lowered your heart rate? you are also taking a beta-blocker (inderal) which can lower hr. you are taking klonopin (clonazepam) (long-acting benzodiazepine) which can help sleep. i would not add otc drugs without checking with your md. consider non-drug treatment for insomnia: cbt psychotherapy which could also help you with your anxiety. consult a psychologist who treats sleep prob
why does even 1-2 units of alcohol give me palpitations racing heart and insomnia when trying to sleep? i used to be able to drink up to 10 units.
but why are you trying to drink alcohol when you are taking fluoxetine? generally alcohol will make depression and anxiety worse. you may want to discuss with your doctor first before drinking alcohol.
i have had a tension headache for the past hour now it's gone but i feel light headed and and feel my pulse in the back of my neck and back of my head and i have insomnia and anxiety could that have anything to do with those feelings i'm experiencing?
need to be evaluated by your doctor and the same goes for the other symptoms you mention to rule out medical conditions. if this is an anxiety disorder you can see a clinical psychologist to learn some stress management techniques. peace and good health.
is it safe to take caffeine pills and energy drinks together?
consuming 4 to 12 mg/kg of caffeine has been associated with undesirable symptoms including anxiety and jitteriness. headache and fatigue commonwithdrawal symptoms can occur after short-term high-dose use. caffeine intoxication is a clinical syndrome of nervousness irritability anxiety insomnia tremor tachycardia palpitations and upset stomach. seifert et al 2011. its high risk behavior
why my heart beats fast? and weird like i'm scare or nervous?
is state of tension apprehension worry uneasiness or fear. it may be related to anticipated danger or arise for no apparent reason. while mild episodes of anxiety are common and do not usually require treatment more severe forms can be chronic and debilitating. symptoms of severe anxiety: insomnia chest pain shortness of breath nausea palpitations teeth clenching/grinding and headache.
why does my heart beat fast when i'm eating like i'm nervous or scare? it never happen before.
is state of tension apprehension worry uneasiness or fear. it may be related to anticipated danger or arise for no apparent reason. while mild episodes of anxiety are common and do not usually require treatment more severe forms can be chronic and debilitating. symptoms of severe anxiety: insomnia chest pain shortness of breath nausea palpitations teeth clenching/grinding and headache.
why when i use omega 3 fish oil o linaza i feel very bad i got symptoms like strong palpitation restlessness tingle insomnia during 2 days?
then stop using it.
having insomnia from palpitations and feeling not getting enough air been on buspar (buspirone) 10mg 2xdaily 2weeks can increase dose help this?
you wrote previously about having had your symptoms checked in er and had normal exams etc. your symptoms are very common in anxiety which buspar (buspirone) can help. buspar (buspirone) can be increased in dose and your doctor can work with you on this. another essential part of treatment is psychotherapy because this can help you learn healthy ways of dealing with painful emotion -- including anxiety. be well.
having insomnia from palpitations and feeling not getting enough air been on buspar (buspirone) 10mg 2xdaily 2weeks can increase dose help this?
young but have you had a sleep study to determine what is causing these sleep symptoms?
i have severe insomnia with no sleep at all. diphenhydramine+melatonin and ambien (zolpidem) both work for me but both are giving me chest pain. what to do?
there are many causes of insomnia. it is important to contact your doctor to get a proper assessment appropriate testing and referral to specialists if needed. in some cases there may be multiple causes going on simultaneously. there are many over the counter and prescription medications used to help with sleep but the most effective approach is to diagnose and treat underlying cause(s). best.
i have severe insomnia with no sleep at all. diphenhydramine+melatonin and ambien (zolpidem) both work for me but both are giving me chest pain. what to do?
i have found that many of my patients find good results with the following combination which can sometimes be found together in some otc herbal sleep aids: passionflower extract melatonin (low dose. . 2mg or less) valerian root the passionflower extract works quickly the valerian lasts 6-8 hours and the melatonin fills the gap between the two. leave off the melatonin if it still causes pain.
hard to breathe get pain on the left side of my chest my heart beat also increases out of nowhere for like 10 minutes randomly. should i be concerned?
excessive caffeine energy drinks nicotine other stimulant chemicals can do it. stress insomnia high thyroid status anemia mitral valve disease . dvt/ pe if you are on birth control can do it. see pmd for easy solution. without those. panic attack will be most fitting dx for your age and sex.
might have anxiety or thyroid issue. main symptom tachycardia and insomnia. taking remeron and xanax (alprazolam) at night. should i try a low dose beta blocker?
i think you should discuss this with your doctor.
high pulse beat i. e. 108 per minute.
many reasons for this. main goal is to rule out cardiac arrhythmia. i would advise you to go see cardiologist if this is a persistent problem while resting. however i can see that you are on alprazolam and have insomnia. i wonder you have anxious personality. if it is so relaxation technique is always the best option rather than depending on pharmacotherapy.
i haven't been able to sleep even though i feel tired and sleepy my body feels like it's floating and my heart is racing. what's going on with me?
you may suffer from anxiety disorder. you should seek a professional to help your insomnia
my free t4 is 1. 5 and t3 is 2. 7 and tsh 2. 29 while currently on syn. 50mcg. having fast heart rate and insomnia. endo wants to add cytomel (liothyronine). good?
it depends on the doctor. my opinion would be to try a different type of levothyroxine first. if you are on generic you could go to brand synthroid or tirosint. people absorb these metabolic medicines differently and a different type might normalize your t3 (liothyronine) (which is pretty close anyway).
my free t4 is 1. 5 and t3 is 2. 7 and tsh 2. 29 while currently on syn. 50mcg. having fast heart rate and insomnia. endo wants to add cytomel (liothyronine). good?
many people with hypothyroidism also have adrenal fatigue. cortisol dysregulation can be an issue with too low levels in the morning and too high levels at night. check my webpage: drfairchild. org for more information. look for the pdf on hypothyroidism. you may need the cytomel (liothyronine) but i do not have complete labs on you.
my free t4 is 1. 5 and t3 is 2. 7 and tsh 2. 29 while currently on syn. 50mcg. having fast heart rate and insomnia. endo wants to add cytomel (liothyronine). good?
hi. i can't imagine why an endo of all people would want to add cytomel (liothyronine) based on those labs (and that must be a free t3 not a total t3). adding t3 (cytomel (liothyronine)) will most likely not help your fast heart rate and insomnia and those labs look fine! good luck!
i am on clarithromycin for tonsillitis as allergic to penicillin and am experiencing a bit of chest tightness and light headed is this a side effect?
clarithromycin is usually well tolerated. main side effects of clarithromycin are headache insomnia gassy diarrhea nausea abdominal pain
is propranolol a good medicine to combat akathisia from antipsychotic medicines? i have heard it can cause insomnia and fatigue & worried about it
akathesia is a dose-related side effect of most antipsychotic meds. review with prescribing doctor to consider dose adjustment. adding low dose propanolol to start is reasonable; but close medical supervision is necessary to monitor blood pressure and mental status. fatigue is possible propanolol s/e. insomnia unlikely. i hope this helps.
my mum is 43 and has developed severely red cheeks as well as insomnia anxiety and increased heart rate. what could it be?
2 distinctive diseases that can start with an intense red rash mainly at the cheeks. usually in adults. rosacea and systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). both more common in women. lupus tend to be associated with systemic symptoms like fatigue fever joint pain loss weight anxiety etc. autoimmune disease that can attack any organ of your body. see your doctor soon.
my mum is 43 and has developed severely red cheeks as well as insomnia anxiety and increased heart rate. what could it be?
first assess all of the medications and food she has eaten recently to rule out an allergic reaction. the next step would be for her to talk through what is on her mind with a professional to reduce the worry and develop coping skills to better deal with anxiety in the future.
my doctor says i might have low magnesium. palpitations daily up to 2 hours at a time feel very cold too. how dangerous is this?
magnesium is a essential for the function of over 300 enzymes & needed for muscle nerve & heart function. low magnesium can cause or aggravate muscle spasms anxiety insomnia migraine headaches hypertension fatigue palpitations constipation asthma osteoporosis etc. the best magnesium supplements are magnesium taurate glycinate citrate & aspartate. see <link>
have light pain in jaw towards chin comes an goes sharp pains in chest to right changes to left sometimes 2 ekgs were fine the past 5 months anxiety?
symptoms are not a sign of illness they are the mind's ability to produce the "flight or fight" response which gives rise to many physiological changes include nausea sob insomnia dry mouth aphasia tremor and sweating. depending on the cause of your anxiety symptoms your health care provider can recommend appropriate treatment.
what can cause symptoms of overactive sympathetic nervous system and elevated epinephrine? thyroid fine heart tests fine except for tachycardia.
some causes can be adrenal fatigue heart disease high blood pressure chronic fatigue food sensitivities fibromyalgia alcoholism anxiety depression insomnia compulsive overeating irritable bowel excess sweating ptsd.
what side effects are associated with apixaban?
common are anemia hemorrhage nausea low blood pressure peripheral edema dizziness headaches vertigo cataracts upper respiratory tract infection chest pain fever uti blood in urine muscle spasms & aches increase glucose decrease appetite depression insomnia rash.
if i slept very little bc propranolol causes insomnia will i sleep better the next night with no more additional propranolol taken?
propanolol to get out of your system which may take as long as 3 days so you may not sleep well for another day or two.
have temper/severely impatient which i never had before coupled with episodes of hr up to 180bpm tingly hands headache butterflies shaky? reason?
you need some further workup here. an overactive thyroid is one possible cause of increased heart rate (and blood pressure too) as well ad irritability nervousness shakiness insomnia and weight loss. some simple bloodwork could explain this. sometimes urine tests are ordered to test tor the levels of stress hormones put out by the adrenal gland which could also be a possible cause.
hello i am taking atarax 50 mg for insomnia but from 2 days my heart rate reaches 110 bpm. is it secure? what should i do? should i take inderal (propranolol)?
there is a recent warning issued re. cardiovascular problem associated with atarax which tends to spend up the heart rate due to its anti-cholinergic activities. avoid taking atarax and probably also benadryl (diphenhydramine) as a sleeping aid. you shouldn't take another medication to counteract the side effect from another. avoidance is the key.
hello i took atarax (hydroxyzine) 12. 5mg last night once for insomnia. today i feel extreme breath problem and rapid heart rate what should i do please? urgent!
there has been recent warning on cardiovascular issue from atarax (hydroxyzine). i expect that the anticholinergic effect would subside in less than 24 hours. however if this problem is very bothersome you will need to go to the emergency room if you can't get an appointment with your own doctor. in the meanwhile avoid any stimulant such as caffeine.
i started nortriptyline rx for insomnia taking it about week tonight my heart is racing and when dose off i jump up in a panic. give it time or quit?
don't just quit but ask dr to advise. after only a week if dose is low - it might be ok to just stop but get approval! otherwise get a taper off schedule. use this experience to guide future rx care. always plan ahead for bad reactions and what to do about them. seek therapy approach to sleep mgmt. it's much safer and can benefit many areas of your life.
mild fatigue. heart palpitations queasy irritability lower lumbar pain insomnia mild headache. i have been under stress. no fever.
get in 2 c ur pcp u have many symptoms of depression. don't b ashamed or bashful b honest & open so u get the proper care. depression is of many types. familial situational short term or sometimes longer lasting. also post delivery or post menopausal. @ least take the first step!
how to deal with nocturnal panic attacks? i wake up with my heart racing and feel as if i was going to have a heart attack.
24y female w. nocturnal tachycardia & panic attacks. before symptoms are ascribed to psychology arena first have general medical evaluation. mitral valve prolapse to be considered. an echocardiogram can easily discern. other symptoms of "depression burning & insomnia" raise concern for fibromyalgia which is associated w. hypermobility syndrome which is associated with mitral valve prolapse.
how long does it take to recover fully from heart palpitations and anxiety from weekend binge drinking im on day 6 of recovering still have a symptoms?
withdrawal symptoms from alcohol usually begin 6 to 24 hours after the last drink and can last for up to one week. the severity of the symptoms depends on the amount of alcohol intake and the length of time you have been using it. the symptoms can be very serious and include tremor insomnia dts seizures and even death. you need to think about going into an alcohol rehab program
i have insomnia and chest pain problems. also difficulty in concentration. can u plz help me to overcome?
your symptoms are very nonspecific. it is recommended that you consult a specialist in internal medicine who will take a thorough history perform a complete physical examination and order any appropriate tests in order to make a diagnosis. if there are no apparent medical abnormal findings referrals may be made to sleep disorder specialist and for stress management therapy.
sharp pain below sternum (feels better food in stomach) bloating anxiety/tachycardia lightheaded not sleeping well. thryoid or digestive problem?
anxiety can cause indigestion as well as irritable bowel syndrome peptic ulcers gastritis panic attacks insomnia high blood pressure and much more. you need to speak with your doctor about getting medication for improving your coping abilities and therapy. you can spend your life going from doctor to doctor for all your symptoms but they are usually caused by anxiety and depression.
what can cause constant dizziness tremor rapid heartbeat fatigue insomnia and a feeling like something very bad is gonna happen?
just to name one of many possibilities. greetings. it looks like you need a thorough work up by your primary care doctor. hyperthyroidism a pheochromocytoma drug induced and end stage renal disease all could fit the bill. good luck.
what is the best over the counter sleep aid for zoloft (sertraline) 50 mg induced insomnia? i also take 40mg of propranolol 2x a day and. 5 clonazepam as needed
discuss your concerns w/your prescribing doc whether family doc or psychiatrist. you didn't mention why you're taking your med combo but i personally would try to stay away from clonazepam & other benzodiazepines which can be addictive. before adding 4th drug to your regimen have you tried taking sertraline in morning to see if you can sleep better later? short of that ask doc about changing rx
solu medrol (methylprednisolone). can it cause low heart rate and nonspecific ekg?
why are you on solumedrol (methylprednisolone)? it can increase bp fluid retention tachycardia mood swings nervousness insomnia anxiety vertigo hypokalemia glucose intolerance and in theory non specific ekg changes due to above.
would energy drinks be bad for an 18 year old if they only had like 1 a week or less?
read label before having energy drinks. most contain large amounts of caffeine and sugar. diabetics avoid. caffeine can cause palpitations anxiety and insomnia. see: <link> i hope this helps.
what is effect of prolonged usage of metoprolol?
hello ugonzalez i saw your question and wanted to help you out. metoprolol is a great medication for blood pressure tremors heart failure or heart disease but it does have side effects like all drugs. shortness of breath erectile dysfunction insomnia and depression are rare and associated with long term use. you should see your md if you have any of those symptoms. good luck to you <positive_smiley>
i have been taking xanax for several years. a low dose of 0. 25 mg. my bp has been very low 80/60 and i have fainted at times. is the xanax causing it?
yes both hypotension (low blood pressure) and syncope (fainting) are possible side effects of xanax. you are taking a very low dose and you do not specify why you have been taking this for years. anxiety? insomnia? check with your prescribing dr about withdrawing slowly off this drug. consider nondrug solutions like cbt psychotherapy from an experienced psychologist for anxiety or insomnia.
my resting heart rate is 90-100 lately and i dont know the reason? maybe stress? im 19 y/o female and this scares me. should i be worried?
heart resting rate of 90-100 per minute may be "normal" for less physically active people if having been able to conduct personal & occupational chores and tasks at a reasonable pace without short of breath. so you may consult doc to assess your general physical fitness ability and lifestyle as well as to ensure you're free of anxiety insomnia overactive thyroid drug misuse etc. best wish.
why am i feeling my heartbeat when i wake up? i am currently on prozac (fluoxetine).
prozac (fluoxetine) can cause heart palpitations as a side effect. other side effects include headache gi upset dizziness nervousness insomnia changes in appetite and sexual side effects. are you on any other medications? certain medications interact with prozac (fluoxetine) affecting its metabolism in the body. recommend contacting your doctor for further evaluation and recommendations. all the best.
i have had headaches and intermittent chest tightness for over a year. i feel really i'll but so far nothing on blood tests or heart workup. insomnia.
if your physician cannot ascertain a medical condition underlying your symptoms you may need to have an evaluation by a psychiatrist or psychologist to see if there can be a role in these symptoms
is drinking caffeine daily bad for you? in the form of energy drinks tea coffee and sodas?
daily caffeine intake isn't harmful but the amount you're getting in energy drinks may be. troublesome. the side effects are: palpitations insomnia and nervousness. if you're not suffering from those problems you're okay. there aren't any dangerous side effects if you're otherwise healthy.
my bloodtest showed my potassium chloride level was 3. 2. is it causing my heart palpitations? ekg was fine. racing heart causing anxiety and insomnia.
levels can be bad for arrhythmia of the heart with low levels liable to cause more rhythm problems and issues with muscle spasms. at that level k 3. 2 it should not be too bad. eat more bananas and drink more pineapple juice.
sudden rapid heart rate of 167bpm with blood pressure 92/63. chest felt heavy but went away as fast as it came on. insomnia. fatigue. last ekg normal?
tachycardia with low blood pressure is worrisome. you should be evaluated immediately in the er
having dizziness body twitches causing severe insomnia rapid heartbeat. cbc results normal but ferritin 34 - range 15-150. ferritin level the cause?
your body stores of iron are low but not depleted. menstrual blood loss is a common cause of iron deficiency in women. you should take oral iron supplement and multivitamins. for good health - have a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains low fat milk and milk products nuts beans legumes lentils and small amounts of lean meats. avoid saturated fats. exercise at least 150 minutes/week and increase the intensity of exercise gradually. do not use tobacco alcohol weed or street drugs in any form. practice safe sex.
lately i've had bad anxiety focused on my breathing my heart beat and bp. then i panic and it speeds up getting palpitations n scared wanting to go to er. been to pcp says heart ok. what to do? <negative_smiley>
hello best treatment for anxiety is an antidepressant. if you have insomnia recommend remeron (mirtazapine) 15-30 mg at night. other options are citalopram or sertraline- would start at 10 or v25 mg/d respectively. it will take a few weeks but can help anxiety safely. beware that you don't have bipolar disorder because it can make you worse. rec you see a mental health provider.
normal lab results hyper thyroid symptoms. (tachycardia/insomnia) is synthroid (thyroxine) or armour preferred? possible adrenal issue?
adding thyroid hormone replacement to a hyperthyroid gland will exacerbate the problem. if there is underlying adrenal insufficiency adrenal crisis is more likely to occur in someone with hyperthyroidism. highly recommend endocrine evaluation if you have these issues.
normal lab results hyper thyroid symptoms. (tachycardia/insomnia) is synthroid (thyroxine) or armour preferred? possible adrenal issue?
could b anxiety but need work up to determine source of symptoms.
rapid heartbeat is a physical response to stress i heard. what else is?
acute stress-fight or flight response: shallow breathing dry mouth sweats tremor dilated pupils urge to move bowels palpitations; tingly fingers toes lips from overbreathing (hyperventilation); insomnia; irritability. any all or other. chronic stress can result in more subtle responses as well as muscle tightness spasm asthma (if predisposed) trigger autoimmune problems etc.
shortness of breath elevated heartrate anxiety head ache trouble sleeping. been a few days and seems worse. what could this be?
shortness of breath increased heart rate headache anxiety and insomnia are a constellation of symptoms that could signal many problems both physical and emotional. among the physical possibilities is overactive thyroid. with a complete medical history physical exam and appropriate tests your doctor can help sort this out.
i have clammy hands rapid heart rate & anxiety. i took six 25mg generic benadryl all at once three hours ago. is it an overdose?
took 6 25mgm caps makes150mgm. that is three times the maximum one time dose of 50mgm. can be taken every 6 to 8 hours. we don't know when you took it. maximum daily dose is 300 mgm. benadryl has a short half life&gets out of your system rapidly. it causes sleepiness confusion ringing ears blurred vision dilated pupils dry mouth shaking fever insomnia hallucinations shaking&seizures. if any sympts goer
nuclear stress test earlier today. diangosis w pleuritis last week. on pred. heart racing since test. not bad but noticeable at around 90 at rest. related?
yes: prednisone is a great drig but many side effects including racing heart palpitations anxiety insomnia gastritis and irritability. it sounds like a side effect issues but you should be examined and checked.
propranolol:does it help with insomnia related to anxiety disorder? i know ill talk to my doctor. i just want to know please
propranolol is used to decrease anxiety symptoms by slowing heart rate. one of the side effects may be drowsiness. you are right it would be good to discuss this with your doctor to see what is right for you.
pvc's more often everyday. random dizzy feeling in head when walk /sit(progesing symp)cardio doc says take beta blocker. hr reg. temp fix. real cause?
premature ventricular contraction (pvc) may induce symptoms: palpitations shortness of breath hypotension anxiety insomnia etc. . over time frequent pvcs can in some patients cause changes in the heart function. you should have a holter a cardiac th. viability scan an echo look at the valves and lv thickness. start on beta blockers metoprolol. you must see a cardiologist.
shortness if breathe insomnia neck & lower back pain low blood pressure. doctors say they can't find what causing my decreased blood flow to my brain?
how was it established that you have low blood flow to the brain. if your blood pressure is low you will have decreased blood flow everywhere. i agree you need a full medical evaluation and if ok then you need an exercise program to improve your blood pressure your strength your back and neck pain and to improve your sleep. the simple answer is that you may be deconditioned.
shortness if breathe insomnia neck & lower back pain low blood pressure. doctors say they can't find what causing my decreased blood flow to my brain?
if you mean that your blood pressure is low there are many reasons this can happen. if you having body aches and shortness of breath if you are having numbness and tingling you may have an autonomic neuropathy. maybe you should see a neurologist.
can you explain the withdrawal symptoms of zyprexa (olanzapine)? currently have heart palps sweating everything feels loud to my ears and insomina. common?
withdrawal from zyprexa (olanzapine) especially if rapid can cause insomnia. . nausea sweating and intensified reactions to stimuli. the doctor who prescribed this should be able to walk you through this or refer you to someone who can.
swollen thyroid glands every time i breath in my lower abdomen an groin vibrate like a cellphone had night sweats insomnia chest tightness depressed?
this constellation of symptoms warrants medical evaluation (chest tightness combined with night sweats).
ways to help reduce my anxiety until i can see a psycho therapist to help me? natural remedies. anything? i want to exercise but my heart races
first do you do any stimulants? caffeine nicotine rx otc street drugs etc? if not get a complete physical with bloodwork to r/o medical cause for anxiety and racing heart. i take it u have apt. with therapist. consider yoga breathing exercises and possibly vallarian root as it is a herb that has been used for insomnia & anxiety. max dose 400-450mg. start low dose and gradually increase.
what is the best medicine for ear and nose congestion plus post nasal drip that will not cause insomnia or my heart to race?
to make sure u don't have infection.
what is the best medicine for ear and nose congestion plus post nasal drip that will not cause insomnia or my heart to race?
there are a number of medicines available over the counter to treat congestion and post nasal drip. the easiest thing to do is to go to your nearest pharmacy and speak to the pharmacist tell him or her that you want a decongestant that will not affect your heart. also some products will state on their label that they do not affect the heart.
what is the definition or description of: caffeine use?
caffeine is a stimulant substance found in many beverages such as coffee tea and cola; some medications such as excedrin contain it also. some feel it increases attention & concentration. it can cause jitteriness insomnia and anxiety -- also produces a withdrawal syndrome when someone stops using it. many people are habituated to caffeine and don't realize it until they miss their dose.
what are the effects of caffeine and aspirin on avid runners?
caffeine shouldn't have significant adverse effects beyond insomnia if taken within a few hours of try to sleep. aspirin when used intermittently in adults also shouldn't be a problem. when used chronically it can put you at increased risk for bleeding and high doses can be toxic. follow the package labeling to be safe.
what are side effects of irbesartan for high blood pressure?
common adverse drug reactions (adrs) include: dizziness headache and/or hyperkalemia. infrequent adrs associated with therapy include: first dose orthostatic hypotension rash diarrhea dyspepsia abnormal liver function muscle cramp myalgia back pain insomnia decreased hemoglobin levels renal impairment pharyngitis and/or nasal congestion.
what evidence exists on short- and long-term negative effects of ghb (street name g) on the central nervous system heart liver or other major organ?
great supplement now federally illegal and known as the "date rape" drug. had great potential increased hgh production during sleep helped with insomnia but was abused when combined with etoh leading to amnesia. it is now federally illegal in the u. s. and unless you have a way around felony convictions i would sincerely advise you steer clear of any black market source.
what could cause heart pain and allergies and loss of appetite and green mucus and insomnia in a 20 year old?
see u physician if u don't have medical problems it could be depression u need to be seen for evaluation.
what could cause heart pain and allergies and loss of appetite and green mucus and insomnia in a 20 year old?
it is common age for food allergy which is very difficult to test for but those are all common symptoms. you figure this out by eliminating foods and slowly introducing them back in one by one a week at a time. see doctor if does not help.
what could cause heart pain and allergies and loss of appetite and green mucus and insomnia in a 20 year old?
high levels of air-borne particulates can occur if there has been improper maintenance of the home hvac system.
what are the long-term cardiac effects of chronic insomnia and constantly disrupted sleep patterns?
while sleep deprivation causes increased risks of heart attack stroke and maybe cancer the most obvious effects are usually psychological. it's sometimes hard to tell what is the chicken and what is the egg. a common cause of sleep problems is psychiatric disease. it clearly will shorten your life expectancy unless corrected. you should get professional help.
what are the long-term cardiac effects of chronic insomnia and constantly disrupted sleep patterns?
chronic insomnia especially due to osa can surely increase cardiac morbidity and mortality.
what are the concequences of stress?
a certain amount of stress is normal however unchecked stress can cause and contribute to disease. anxiety hypertension lowered immune response insomnia and even autoimmune disorders are all linked to stress. the best remedy for stress is mindfulness and meditation. try sitting & breathing yoga or exercise. whatever you choose sustained stress management is the best prevention.
what are the concequences of stress?
1 emotional 2 physical 3 functional. 1-irritability sadness anger loss of hope poor energy & drive depression moodiness rages loss of fun. 2- insomnia weakness weight loss or gain poor physical stamina susceptibility to infections muscle & joint pain hormonal changes (menstrual) 3- work problems (missing late quitting fired) family conflicts bad financial decisions injury prone.
what are the side effects of adalat (nifedipine) retard can it raise psa level?
ankles skin flushing lassitude constipation. less commonly fainting dizziness indigestion rapid heart rate/palpitations anxiety urinary frequency erectile dysfunction insomnia swollen joints and visual disturbances. should not have any effect on psa.
what is restless leg syndrome?
rls should meet these criteria: 1- urge to move legs also can affect arms. 2-moving the legs relieves that uncomfortable feeling for a short period of time. 3-should happen near bedtime. in severe cases even daytime. 4- it can cause insomnia and eventually daytime sleepiness.
what are these symtoms of: diarrhea insomnia indigestion heart burn?
hyperacidity due to hypersecretory gastropathies or gastinoma can produce your constellation of complaints. more likely stress is the issue--have you considered this latter possibility? in either case your doctor will want to perform simple tests and offer treatment--seek his care.
why do insomnia increses the blood pressure?
transient & related to sleep deprivation which results in elevation of adrenaline which raises blood pressure.
why do insomnia increses the blood pressure?
prolonged insomnia is stressful to one's emotional and medical well-being. one physical manifestation amongst many of stress is changes in blood pressure. also insomnia can result from a large variety of medical/mental health conditions and/or lifestyle (eg dietary/exercise) choices many of which can lead to increased blood pressure especially if untreated.
why do insomnia increses the blood pressure?
sleep deprivation is often associated with anxiety which is accompanied by physiological responses. it is likely part of the stress response.
why do i feel this? shooting chest pain profuse sweating dizziness&lightheaded paniky hyperventilating insomnia worry 24/7 avoid places cause of fear.
it sounds like you are having panic attacks. see your physician for an exam and more details and a diagnosis.
why do i feel this? shooting chest pain profuse sweating dizziness&lightheaded paniky hyperventilating insomnia worry 24/7 avoid places cause of fear.
this could be many things with just the above: thyroid respiratory anxiety/panic prior traumatizing experience(s) etc. you should see a doctor (soon) for an examination possibly some basic tests and possibly referral to a counsellor and/or medication depending on what the dr learns when talks with and examines you.
why do i feel this? shooting chest pain profuse sweating dizziness&lightheaded paniky hyperventilating insomnia worry 24/7 avoid places cause of fear.
you are probably suffering from severe panic disorder. you need thorough history exam and proper treatment. this seems to be very disabling condition for you.
when discharged from hospital after a 3 heart bypass i was prescribed meds for insomnia. i did not ask for them or complain of sleeping problem. 2 weeks after procedure having problem sleeping. why?
sometimesbit is related to slow withdrawal of anesthetic meds sometimes to alterations in your activity level sometimes due to residual discomfort and sometimes due to post cabg depression. most of these are temporary.
when discharged from hospital after a 3 heart bypass i was prescribed meds for insomnia. i did not ask for them or complain of sleeping problem. 2 weeks after procedure having problem sleeping. why?
it takes several weeks to recover from surgery. during that time sleep activity and appetite patterns are likely to be different from normal. talk to your doctor.
what causes fatigue hair loss infertility insomnia non threatening heart murmur?
any chronic illness would cause all of those symptoms. for example advanced kidney disease cirrhosis. anemia diabetes thyroid deficiency adrenal insufficiency to name a few. any serious infection (for example sub-acute bacterial endocarditis) could also cause all of those sx.
what are the ups and downs of taking magnesium. im anxious a lot n think i had panic attack few months ago. been cleared of heart lung prob. no asthma?
one of the benefits of mag is treatment of insomnia depression and migraines. also use to treat or help in the treatment certain psychiatric illness. panic attacks anxiety stress. also help treat diabetes hypertension osteoporosis.
would taking fish oil less often improve the insomnia brought on by taking it daily? what could i take that is similar that doesn't cause me insomnia?
to overcome the insomnia which is rare and generally resolves with time. google sleep hygiene. try passionflower chamomile valerian kava-kava(may be toxic to liver rarely) or a warm bath with lavender candles.
what is the medical reason fish oil is causing me to have horrible insomnia?
fish oil would not result in insomnia -- unless possibly you're using some that is rancid and it's giving you so much indigestion it interrupts your sleep. you list no medical conditions in your information but are taking melatonin. it sounds like it's time for a full evaluation of your sleep disturbance. you can start with your family doctor and may also need a psychiatrist <negative_smiley>or sleep doctor.
which which helps with insomnia benicar (olmesartan) or cozaar?
those medications are for hypertension. not for insomnia.
was perscribed propanolol by my doc. 10mg for tremors. whens best time to take it? night or day?
this medication can cause dizziness fatigue insomnia diarrhea among several other symptoms. i would advise that you ask your physician that question so that if you do have a problem he/she can address the problem.
what to do if i cannot sleep at night because my heart races?
if you are concerned about insomnia you should learn about hypnotherapy. it is something anyone can learn takes just a session or two and can cure insomnia without using medication at all. it also reduces stress. find a qualified psychologist to help you learn how hypnosis can help.
what to do if insomnia with my arb (cozaar) for high blood pressure?
you need to speak to the physician (p) who ordered the cozaar (losartan) (c) for you. c is from an arb which have very few side effects. if you are having insomnia (i) from c ask your p to order you either another arb or switch you to another bp medicine or arb to see if it gets better. good luck
what to do if insomnia with my arb (cozaar) for high blood pressure?
it does not cause insomnia. reference (see page 12-15): <link> (this monograph is required by and reviewed by the fda).
would there have to be bulleyes mark on body for lyme disease? been experiencing chest pain/sleep disturbances. heart tests were norm. not lyme carditis?
the classic "bull's eye" rash of lyme disease is present in some form in around 80% of cases. consider following up with your provider to possibly check a blood test for lyme disease and to keep looking into other causes for your chest pain and insomnia.
what causes stich like pain in my back bones and pain in chest also stich pain in back of head and pain in jaw had it for over a year.
symptoms are not a sign of illness they are the mind's ability to produce the "flight or fight" response which gives rise to many physiological changes include heart palpitations nausea tingling insomnia dry mouth speech impairment tremor and sweating. depending on the cause of your anxiety symptoms your health care provider can provide you with treatment option
can melatonin cause irregular heartbeat?
melatonin is a hormone found naturally in the body. it's main use is for insomnia. melatonin seems to be able to shorten the amount of time it takes to fall asleep but only by about 12 minutes! (according to one research study) the usual dose 1-3mg. melatonin can raise blood pressure in people who are taking certain medications to control blood pressure-so not recommended in hypertension (hi bp).
