if you lose weight and exercise can you get rid of the excess abdominal fat called an "apron? " or is a tummy tuck the only permanent solution?
ususlly an abdominal apron or ""panniculus" is composed of skin and fat. therefore while det and exercise may reduce fat and improve muscle tone it is unlikely to make skin contract and while highly desireable may make the apron worse but easier to treat and better for your overall health. loose skin is marked by stretch marks and possible intertrigo erythema and yeast infections.
is intertrigo likely to appear between breasts on cleavage is topicort cream safe for treating that red itching spreading rash? what else it could be
you could try medicine for fungus infection. this could be candida yeast infection. trying the creams women use for yeast infections or athlete's foot creams may help until you can get to see the doctor for a real diagnosis. if you have a yeast infection on the skin the topicort may even make it worse. try to keep the areas cool and dry.
intertrigo is rash that starts in the skind folds so would it be able to start behind the ear? i work with head gear around my ears.
any skin fold is a potential for intertrigo. if you are prone to it or if you have a pre-disposition for it there are a few tricks to try to help prevent it or prolong a new outbreak from occurring. after every shower while the area is soaking wet rub in baby oil for 30 seconds then towel dry. in addition before any sports like wearing head gear rub vasaline petroleum jelly into the folds.
intertrigo is rash that starts in the skind folds so would it be able to start behind the ear? i work with head gear around my ears.
unless you are putting something back there you are allergic to i bet this is seborrheic dermatitis. use a zinc based shampoo and some over the counter hydrocortisone.
why do extremely obese people develop fungal infections in the folds of their skin?
intertrigo is an inflammatory condition of skin folds induced or aggravated by heat moisture maceration friction and lack of air circulation. intertrigo frequently is worsened or colonized by infection which most commonly is candidal but also may be bacterial fungal or viral. intertrigo commonly affects the axilla perineum inframammary creases and abdominal folds.
impetigo or intertrigo. i was wondering if they are the same skin disease?
impetigo is a superficial skin infection caused by strep or staph germs. intertrigo is a superficial inflammatory dermatitis caused by friction heat and moisture and involves area of skin apposition e. g. neck skin folds.
what is the effect of clotrimazole(1. 00% w/w) +clobetasol propionate (0. 05% w/w)? how long can this be used on vulvar area for intertrigo treatment? a
clobetasol propionate cream (emollient) should not be used in the treatment of rosacea or perioral dermatitis and should not be used on the face groin or axillae.
what is the effect of clotrimazole(1. 00% w/w) +clobetasol propionate (0. 05% w/w)? how long can this be used on vulvar area for intertrigo treatment? a
i usually have patients limit use to 1 week. they stop for 1 week then can restart again.
will i need oral antifungal drugs to treat candidiasis intertrigo which is a yeast skin infection of skin folds?
there are topical medications that are effective for treating that condition as well.
i have done the cbc test and white cells are a bit low. is it related to intertrigo inner thighs? please note that i am not complained of any symptoms
relates to intertrigo and could've normal for you. if the person who ordered the test and knows you is not worried then you don't either
i have a mild case of intertrigo in the folds of my thighs/groin. is there an actual cure? going to doc soon home care not working. it's spreading.
try lotrimin (clotrimazole) cream untill you can see your doctor
i have a mild case of intertrigo in the folds of my thighs/groin. is there an actual cure? going to doc soon home care not working. it's spreading.
a mixture of bactoba
intertrigo in groin region? can i use hydrozole for it? i'm female 22y. intertrigo also underarms and under breast
simple intertrigo is an irritant dermatitis caused by the combination of frictional rubbing increased temperature and moisture. intertrigo can be complicated various microorganisms including yeasts dermatophytic fungi bacteria hydrozole would only be effective if there is a secondary yeast infection. •shower and dry off thoroughly each day. keep your skin as dry and cool as you can.
is it possible for me to be allergic to talc or would it be intertrigo?
unlikely to be allergic to talc
what is best soap to use for daily showers with intertrigo?
there is no specific brand to use but i recommend anti-bacterial brand because intertrigo allows for infection to set in in the inflamed areas. make sure to keep the affected area clean and dry.
what is best soap to use for daily showers with intertrigo?
does this almost universally thought to be the best and mildest cleanser going. this is not really a "soap" as much as it is a cleanser which has softening properties. we really like dove bar best and i would not use any liquid soaps because they are all more drying than just about any bar soap going. same goes for intertrigo but there are other ways to help that including powders like caldesene.
i've noticed that there is a red line between the buttocks which burned me a little is that an intertrigo? how can i treat it?
intertrigo is a red rash between skin folds and can be the result of yeast fungus or bacteria build-up in those areas associated with moisture. it can be treated with most anti-fungal/yeast creams. if not improving please seek medical care.
i have intertrigo on my scrotum. what to do?
intertrigo denotes some inflammatory chafing skin change at deep sklin folds or juxtaposed skin surface resulting from sweating moisture warmth & local bacterial & fungal overgrowth. so modifying and eliminating the unfavorable conditions by weight loss heightened topical hygiene with more dryness and aeration judicious use of antifungal cream with steroid. more? ask doc timely.
i have intertrigo on my scrotum. what to do?
intertrigo is a fancy name for a rash that shows up between the folds of skin. it is a very common skin rash that can crop up throughout life. maybe its fungus. your a young guy. are producing a lot of hormones and maybe are sweating a lot. try to keep yourself dry and clean. change your underwear a couple times a day. you may try some jock itch spray. bottom line. no big deal.
intertrigo (dx'd bad case): can wearing sanitary napkin 24 hrs day for sporadic urinary incontinence cause intertrigo? i change as needed. got meds
chronic moisture with urine irritation is common. it's best to prevent this by applying a thin layer of desitin (zinc oxide diaper cream) or a&d ointment to the skin to prevent the urine from penetrating into the skin.
intertrigo groin crease completed 3 wks econazole nitrate 6 days ago. drove 100 miles and long walk today. area is tender. still healing?
the intertrigo may or may not have been compounded by yeast infection but it appears that the intertrigo has been complicated by inflammation unrelieved by antiyeast treatment. avoid further inflammation by not wearing tight underwear and trousers. keep the area clean and dry and avoid as much friction as possible. see a dermatologist if symptoms persist or worsen.
what is the treatment for penile intertrigo?
the treatment of choice is prescription vytone cream. this combination medication is used to treat a variety of skin conditions (e. g. eczema fungal skin infections such as ringworm/athlete's foot/jock itch). this product contains 2 medications. iodoquinol is an antibiotic that works by preventing the growth of fungus/bacteria. hydrocortisone is a mild corticosteroid which reduces inflammation.
what causes penis intertrigo and does it make the skin raw with years that won't seem to heal and paler looking painfully sensitive glans etc.
these are the two main types of bacteria that can cause the symptoms apart from fungal infections. some people try triple antibiotic ointment to begin with. if that does not help an oral antibiotics may be required. some companies also make compounds antibiotic creams by adding in penicillins or similar type medications in a cream form.
intertrigo: pale pink line. used econazole 7 days still there. not fungal this time? should i return to simple treatment? panty line area.
what is "simple treatment"? intertrigo seborrheic dermatitis monilia (yeast) and fungus are all separate conditions. " not fungal this time"? when was it? which fungus? how was it acquired and how was it treated? you can begin by adding hydrocortisone --- otc---- to your econazole if it itches.
intertrigo: pale pink line. used econazole 7 days still there. not fungal this time? should i return to simple treatment? panty line area.
fungal. it is not clear. i would try a combination agent that has some steroid and antifungal. you can pick it up over the counter. get your local pharmacist to recommend the generic brand he sells that will be inexpensive.
intertrigo: pale pink line. used econazole 7 days still there. not fungal this time? should i return to simple treatment? panty line area.
try lotrisone (clotrimazole and betamethasone)
medication for yeast ordor under stomach i'm morbid obese i have dibetec and a real bad smell coming from up under my stomach that the dr. say it yeast and i want someone to tell me how to get rid of the smell.
you have a condition called intertrigo which is caused by yeast (usually candida albicans) infecting your skin. these organisms thrive in moist warm conditions such as the folds beneath your breasts or lower abdomen. diabetics are particularly likely to develop intertrigo as their immune systems don't work well and elevated blood glucose levels encourage the growth of yeast. keeping the infected areas clean and dry is an important part of treating and preventing intertrigo. (this can be difficult if you're obese. ) avoid using powders that contain cornstarch which may aggravate the condition. topical antifungal medications such as clotrimazole and terbinafine will help but you may need to get a prescription for an oral antifungal such as diflucan (fluconazole) from your doctor. as long as you're obese you'll probably have recurrent problems with intertrigo. your doctor has no doubt discussed this issue with you. i've attached a link that provides more information about intertrigo. i hope things go well for you! <link>
my 4 month old has a shiny red rash in the folds of his neck and i'm not sure why? he is chubby and sweaty a lot.
there are diseases with results of this redness. the main one is called intertrigo and is a macerative effect. by that i mean that the the skin swells almost like dishpan hands. when it takes up enough water then it starts to slough and get irritated. we used to say that the best cure for this is to "hug an air-conditioner. "! keeping cool does help but seeing a dermatologist may be necessary.
what are symptoms of intertrigo under breasts?
reddening of skin (erythema) moisture burning & itching sometimes cracks in skin with oozing & infection
what are symptoms of intertrigo under breasts?
check out <link> webmd. com/skin-problems-and-treatments/guide/intertrigo-symptoms-causes-treatment-risk_factors_ for more info.
what are symptoms of intertrigo under breast and difference between that and rash of inflamatory breast cancer?
intertrigo denotes the skin inflammation or infection from sweat moisture warmth local fungal & bacterial growth in deep skin folds like those under breasts armpits groins etc. rash from inflammatory breast cancer appears at its overlaying skin. so by the location appearance induration etc. the differential diagnosis can be easily reached. more? seek pro-evaluation and counseling timely.
what are symptoms of intertrigo under breast and difference between that and rash of inflamatory breast cancer?
inflammatory breast cancer is an inflammation due to the blocked lymphatic vessels in the deep layer of the skin by cancer cells. the inflammation from intertrigo involves only the superficial layer of skin. deeper inflammation is thicker and the swelling looks like the skin of an orange. also it doesn't usually involve the inframammary fold. an experienced surgeon can usually differentiate.
my 15 weeks old is 1 of those chubby babies. the folds behind her knees & in her armpits are so red & irritated. what medication will help heal it?
it sounds like a condition called intertrigo which is similar to eczema. when you wash her make sure that the creases are dried. when it is red and irritated with oozing use dome boro powder compresses. once it's dry you can put hydrocortisone cream on the rash twice a day for a few days. you should see some improvement then.
obese: in fold of stomach overhang the skin is fragile. right now it is bleeding. what at this moment what can i do? is liposecution ever paid by insurance to remove the excess skin due to bleeding etc.
intertrigo (intertriginous dermatitis) is an inflammatory condition of skin folds induced or aggravated by heat moisture maceration friction and lack of air circulation. intertrigo frequently is worsened or colonized by infection which most commonly is candidal but also may be bacterial fungal or viral. intertrigo commonly affects the axilla perineum inframammary creases abdominal folds.
need doctor's help! will intertrigo be under only one breast?
because it involves skin folds intertrigo is a common side effect of obesity and can occur under the arms on the belly between the thighs in the groin and breast. diabetics are particularly vulnerable as their immune systems are already compromised. as unattractive as the rash is what disconcerts people even more is the foul oozing smell that is so stubborn that it won’t abate. see your md
recurrent intertrigo or fungi indicates u have aids or vih? or are they different things
fungal infections do well under certain conditions- for one they love moisture! just think of mushrooms growing on a wet log! a big part of fighting fungus is changing the environment for them so they can't grow. sure other diseases can help fungal infections such as diabetes and immunosuppressed conditions but many normal folks have it to. try foot powder/environmental changes to wipe out fungi.
how to heal intertrigo that appeared between breasts which otc cream to use except cortizone (hydrocortisone) n clotimazole that don't work. in case when can't go to doc?
aloe vera gel can be applied for treating intertrigo. aloe vera has anti-bacterial and anti-fungal properties. so it is very effective for treating intertrigo.
can a person catch intertrego at another persons house buy using there bath tub?
intertrigo is the word used to describe a rash in body folds. affected skin is reddened and uncomfortable. intertrigo is particularly common in those who are overweight. body folds (flexures) are prone to inflammatory rashes because of: relatively high skin temperature moisture from insensible water loss and sweating cannot evaporate friction from movement of adjacent skin results in chafing?
why would you receive breast reduction surgery?
neck back or shoulder pain with pronouced thoracic kyphosis upper extremity dysesthesias (numbness or tingling) inframammary sulcus intertrigo erythema limited physical activity skin breakdown etc.
can you let me know is impetigo and intertrigo the same skin disease?
impetigo implies an infection of an superficial skin surface most often in children and from strep or staph germs. intertrigo refers to a chafing and redness of two surfaces that are physically located next to each other. the irritation of intertrigo can also become infected but the terms refer to different issues.
when should you get a breast reduction?
the decision to undergo breast reduction is usually based on a desire to reduce the symptoms of large breasts which include back/shoulder pain or numbness intertrigo erythema yeast infections or any symptoms related to the large size of the breasts. on passion this may be performed on a more elective basis for cosmetic concerns.
candidal intertrigo skin infection resisted to clotrimazole and ketoconazole can be treated with oxiconazole nitrate or which cream i try now?
you will probably need oral medication based on your issues. i suggest a dermatologist or infectious disease specialist.
candidal intertrigo fungus skin infection resisted to clotrimazole and ketoconazole can be treated with oxiconazole nitrate or which cream i try now?
lamisil trial
candidal intertrigo fungus skin infection resisted to clotrimazole and ketoconazole can be treated with oxiconazole nitrate or which cream i try now?
see a dermatologist. meanwhile try a little hydrocortisone with whatever azole cream you have. castellani solution is often effective for this.
econazole nitrate 1% topical. derm dx'd re bad intertrigo. online info says do not get in eyes mouth vagina. what if med gets on panties/ t paper?
your panties wash it of with soap and water
i had breast implants put in around 10 years ago. recently i noticed irratation under my breasts which is where the incision was made to place my implants. it also has a bit of an odor. i was very tiny when i did these. size 0 to size 3-5. i have had surg
sounds like yeast infection called intertrigo. see your primary care doctor or a dermatologist to get it treated. sweat and maceration cause this condition.
how is a breast reduction done?
br is an operation in which excess breast and skin is removed while keeping the blood and nerve supply to the nipple-areolar complex. ideally it should preserve a woman's ability to lactate erogenous sensation while decreasing musculoskeletal strain intertrigo (skin rash) and improving her aesthetic results. it is an outpatient op conducted under general anesthesia.
