what is left ventricular hypertrophy with inferior myocardial infarction in a 15 yo boy?
is 15 yo healthy? why was he evaluated? previous cardiac history? autoimmune disorder? kawasaki disease? sickle cell disease? diabetes or cancer? if not then it sounds like an adult cardiologist misread a child's ekg. often an adolescent's ekg will look like left ventricular hypertrophy because of the strength of the electrical impulse and thinness of the chest wall compared to an adult.
what is the youngest age you can have a heart attack?
an infant with coronary aneurysms and stenosis from kawasaki disease can have an infarction. if they have a congenitally abnormal origin of the left coronary artery it can occur as well.
what are long term effects on an adult who may have had kawasaki disease as a child and was never treated. at 21 i had a mi at 25 chronic htn at 48 i had a stroke. my dr keep asking me about a rash when i was a child. one dr said i probably had undiagnose
kawasaki disease is a very rare and poorly understood disease that affects the blood vessel walls the mucous membranes and the lymph nodes in children under the age of 5. there is no specific test that leads to the diagnosis rather there are a list of criteria that a patient must have to qualify for kawasaki disease. treatment usually includes intravenous immunoglobulin (ivig) high dose aspirin and sometimes steroids. many patients will also be followed with heart ultrasounds every 1-2 years since 25% of kids will develop coronary aneurysms (bubbles in the walls of the heart's blood vessels). these aneurysms can cause a myocardial infarction (heart attack). that being said 99% of kids of with kawasaki disease completely recover with early detection and treatment. legal disclaimer: i am providing this general and basic information as a public service and my response to this question does not constitute a doctor-patient relationship. for any additional information advice or specific concerns please speak with your own physician. the information provided is current as of the date of the answer entry.
what are long term effects on an adult who may have had kawasaki disease as a child and was never treated. at 21 i had a mi at 25 chronic htn at 48 i had a stroke. my dr keep asking me about a rash when i was a child. one dr said i probably had undiagnose
some children who had kawasaki disease as a child will develop aneurysms (weakened blood vessels) in the blood vessels that supply the heart. these aneurysms put the children at risk of heart attacks at very young ages. there may be other reasons to have heart attacks at young age though although this is one of the most common.
is it possible for a child/teen to have a heart attack?
acute myocardial infarction is rare in childhood and adolescence. children and teens can have a heart attack due to either an inflammatory condition of the coronary arteries or an anomalous origin of the left coronary artery. thrombotic coronary artery occlusion from kawasaki disease may occur in early childhood.
what age can u have a heart attack or stroke?
though considered rare coronary occlusion is a complication of kawasaki disease in children and strokes do occur in infants or toddlers that have vascular malformations. premi infants also may have intra-cranial hemorrhages during the intensive efforts to keep them alive. the adult cases are more frequent & expected but this completes the spectrum.
my daughter is being treated for kawasaki disease will her heart rate go back to normal when she is fully recovered?
the high heart rate of kawasaki disase (kd) is usually only present during the febrile phase. those who are treated with ivig only very rarely have long-term cardiac problems. however chidlren who are not treated with immunoglobulin (ivig) have a 25% chance of developing aneurysms of the coronary arteries (and other arteries) that can injure the heart and may also cause a high heart rate.
my daughter is being treated for kawasaki disease will her heart rate go back to normal when she is fully recovered?
children with kawasaki recover well. her heart rate should return to normal. if she has any evidence of coronary artery injury she will be followed closely by a cardiologist. the intravenous gamma globulin works very well to reduce symptoms and encourage recovery.
my daughter is being treated for kawasaki disease will her heart rate go back to normal when she is fully recovered?
the heart issues with kawaskai's usually don't affect conduction but rather blood flow to the muscle itself. once the fever is gone things should be better. watch <link> and <link> to learn more.
when is it safe to give my child aspirin?
not unless they have a rare disease called kawasaki disease would you ever give a child aspirin.
what are symptoms of heart attacks in children?
heart attacks are very rare in children but can occur if a child is born with abnormal coronary arteries has extraordinarily high cholesterol or contracts certain diseases (eg: kawasaki disease). the most common cause is cocaine abuse. small children may complain of stomach pain and shortness of breath. older children and teens may have "classic" crushing chest neck or arm pain.
what are the most common children heart conditions?
the most common congenital heart defect is vsd (ventricular septal defect) whereas the most frequent acquired heart disease is kawasaki disease which outnumbered rheumatic heart disease in us.
would a cta scan of chest show coronary artery aneurysms?
coronary aneurysm do not rupture (in adults) like aneurysms of the aorta. when present they have no more significance than garden variety atherosclerosis and are treated the same. they most often arise from atherosclerosis. in infants they may result as a complication of kawasaki disease and can become large and even rupture.
can a child have congestive heart failure and then have a heart attack?
there are rare illnesses like kawasaki disease that can produce coronary aneurysms & a heart attack in a kid. for most that would go into heart failure it would be from a congenital heart defect or myocarditis. in both instances those patients would have a heart fail & develop a fatal rhythm disturbance. that has some similarities to an adult heart attack but i wouldn't use the terms that way.
can a child have congestive heart failure and then have a heart attack?
it's the other way around (such as with kawasaki disease) but yes it's possible.
