what risks are associated with obesity and its ties to diabetes?
obesity and type 2 diabetes are very closely linked. the risks of developing diabetes is much higher in people that are obese. the risks of diabetes include heart disease kidney failure blindness neuropathy amputation of toes/feet/legs etc. obviously there are serious complications that diabetes can cause.
im an endomorph & im on a high protein diet 1. 5g of protein per pound of bodyweight 100-150g of good carbs & minimum fats is this a gd diet plan?
if your goal is to build body fat then yes otherwise no. carbs block burning fat so which are "good". protein also stimulates insulin release insulin promotes fat storage & high protein can drive higher kidney failure rates so high questionable. fats of natural origin best evidence of being healthy for humans. study: "big fat lies" "science for smart people" dietdoctor lustig taubes.
what is the differance between sleep apnea and obstructive sleep apnea?
obstrutive due to dynamic narrowing of upper airway (nose/throat/wind pipe) by a large tongue jaw deformities obesity. pt usually snores. central apnea there is no obstruction usually no snoring. conditions like heart-kidney failure stroke sedatives cause brainstem to decrease respiratory drive when sleeping. need to treat the conditions.
i have type 2 diabetes but i feel fine so why do i need treatment?
similar to slow onset hypertension early diabetes can be entirely asymptomatic. the only reason to treat when you feel fine is because you want to prevent complications down the road such as a heart attack a stroke loss of vision or kidney failure.
is eating a high protein diet bad for your kidney health?
no provided that the kidney function is normal. patients with kidney failure need to restrict their protein intake to certain amount.
is it ok to use splenda if i have renal failure and diabetes?
the premise is that splenda is not absorbable i. e. will not go to blood to cause systemic effects. however any substance in large amounts may behave differently and become absorbed partly. therefore we actually cannot be very sure that large amounts of splenda is safe. moderation is the key. having not seen a surge of kidney failure in the recent years isn't necessarily reassuring.
is it safe to eat stevia if you've had a kidney failure?
i am not aware of any problems with stevia in kidney failure. however supplements are not well regulated and thus good studies will not have been conducted.
if i have cihrosis of the liverand my liver has attached itself to the top of my stomach is it possible to do the gastric sleeve?
scarring of liver (cirrhosis) increases risks of surgery. any surgery esp w/general anesthesia can cause liver to "decompensate"-a messy slippery slope of clinical badness: infection bleeding worsening mental status fluid retention kidney failure maybe death. that is a factor above and beyond the technical diff re: anatomy w/stomach. discuss all options w/your doc and surgeon.
is there a diet to follow for polycystic kidney disease? i have normal function. my father & brother both went into kidney failure @ 50. i'm 45.
yes! diet should be low salt low animal protein (30-40 grams per day maximum) very low saturated fat higher polyunsaturated fats are ok and high intake of fruit and vegetables. avoid simple carbs and sugars as much as possible. drink 4 to 5 liters of fluid per day. avoid caffeine. do not smoke. achieve ideal body weight. 80-90 percent of food should be fruit and veg
is there a diet to follow for polycystic kidney disease? i have normal function. my father & brother both went into kidney failure @ 50. i'm 45.
you should meet with your doctor & clarify your personal situation. pkd is a genetic disease that should be obvious on a kidney ultrasound by your age. if you are unaffected then there is little reason for you to worry any more about it.
is it safe to combine creatine with protein in a low fat diet?
too much creatine and proteins can cause excessive urea production in the liver. excessive urea can cause kidneys to not function properly and can cause kidney failure.
will my kidneys fail due to my diabetes type 2 disease?
good control of blood sugar blood pressure and weight significantly decrease risk of kidney failure in diabetes.
will my kidneys fail due to my diabetes type 2 disease?
if your diabetes and other medical conditions (like high blood pressure) are adequately controlled your kidneys should not fail. however both diabetes and hypertension (high blood pressure) are the most common causes of kidney failure in adults but it is not inevitable that diabetics will develop failing kidneys. the key is diet exercise blood sugar control and medication adherence.
what foods should someone eat to put on 20 pounds if they have type 2 diabetes and kidney failure?
for someone who has uncontrolled diabetes and kidney failure gaining weight should not be a priority since it may even worsen diabetes if it is particularly type 2. protein loss becomes a problem with diabetic renal failure as well as problems with blood pressure. you may want to see a certified nutrionist to get better dietary guidance.
what foods should someone eat to put on 20 pounds if they have type 2 diabetes and kidney failure?
most folks w/ diabetes would love to have that problem with wanting to gain weight. of course with your conditions you should not overeat carbs or proteins and really should eat a balanced ada diet. but. if you see a real need to do this eat foods high in fat. twice the calories of carbs and proteins and will not be potential problems for your diabetes or kidney disease. how is your ldl?
what complications can occur to a person with type 1 diabetes that drinks smokes and doesn't eat healthy my 28 year old husband feels like he is dying. he has been a type 1 diabetic since he was 14 and won't take care of his health at all. i just want
diabetes causes the blood sugar to be high. in the long run elevated blood sugar causes the blockage of arteries. arterial blockage in turn causes kidney failure strokes heart attacks and compromise of the extremities. diabetics who ignore their problem usually wind up blind on dialysis and with amputations of their legs. alcohol has a lot of sugar in it so drinking will raise blood sugar even higher than it would otherwise be. smoking is as toxic to the blood vessels as diabetes so a smoker with uncontrolled diabetes is even more likely to wind up with the complications listed above than a smoker without diabetes or a diabetic who doesn't smoke. a diabetic who manages his disease and controls his risk factors can live a fairly normal life. one who does not could very well be dead before the age of 50.
what health problems can my child's diabetes mellitus type 2 cause?
atherosclerosis leading to heart attack peripheral artery disease (loss of toes feet legs) neuropathy stroke etc. along with kidney failure & blindness are principle consequences; quite accelerated in those with dm. typically little done until symptoms severe too late. thus? sugar/carbs ? body fat ? activity optimize nmr lipoproteins get hba1c? 6. 0% at min (? 5. 0% optimal) & sbp? 120 mmhg.
what health problems can my child's diabetes mellitus type 2 cause?
dm 2 acute symptoms- diabetic ketoacidosis hyperosmolar state hypoglycemic episodes chronic effects- due to atherosclerosis coronary artery diseases peripheral vascular disease adiposity hyper triglyceredemia kidney failure retinopathy etc.
what are the possible effects of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim?
assuming you meant side effects some include: 1. drug rash 2. nausea and vomiting (esp if drinking alcohol with it) 3. kidney failure. 4. stevens-johnson syndrome (severe alelrgic reaction). 5. erythema multiforme (rash) 6. anemia (in people with glucose-6-phosphate deficiency).
if you have diabetes type 2 what are the signs right before death?
diabetes has the classical symptoms of polyuria (frequent urination) polydipsia (increased thirst) and polyphagia (increased hunger). more severe disease can lead to heart disease kidney failure blindness loss of fingers/toes/hands/feet. death would most likely come from coma heart attack stroke or kidney disease.
what kind of meals would you recommend for a low protein diet?
kidney failure/disease low protein diet not indicated. why do you need a low protein diet?
it have diabetes type 2 what could happen if i stop taking my medication?
this depends on how bad your diabetes is & what other measures you are using to control it. if you stop your meds your sugars will likely go higher & over time this leads to increased risk of serious complications such as heart disease blindness kidney failure & early death. however it is often possible to control diabetes with diet exercise & supplements. why do you want to stop? see comment:.
what common diseases are you at risk for if you have diabetes 2?
1. gum disease 2. high blood pressure 3. neuropathy ( los of feeling in toes) 4. blindness 5. heart disease 6. kidney failure if you are over weight then add knee problems and possibly sleep apnea if your neck size is over 16 inches and you have symptom like falling asleep easliy during the day high blood pressure and depression.
why do i get dizzy randomly? lately i have been feeling dizzy i try to eat healthy sould i get a blood test?
lots of causes but definetely need to get looked at ; blood test may show anemia or kidney failure that may be the cause but too many causes to rule out ; please get looked at by an md.
what are the possible health complications of obesity?
obesity increases the risk of contracting many diseases including cancer. to list the common: hypertension (high blood pressure) stroke heart attack (infarction) diabetes mellitus degenerative joint disease and those conditions typically lead to many other maladies including heart and kidney failure vision loss painful neuropathies & poor circulation. cancer risk: breast colon uterine+.
i am female 71 with type 2 diabetes stage 4 kidney failure and obstructive sleep apnea. what would the prognosis of aortic valve replacement?
it depends on the cardiac function and the indication for replacement. your comprbidities definitely put at higher risk and the risk depends on how severe they are. it is a major surgery but with the use of experienced staff most people do well.
i am female 71 with type 2 diabetes stage 4 kidney failure and obstructive sleep apnea. what would the prognosis of aortic valve replacement?
what condition of aortic valve do you have? if you have severe symptomatic aortic stenosis aortic valve replacement is the only solution. most people would have some comorbidities so your other medical conditions are not a contraindication for surgery. if the risk of surgery is deemed probihitiveby the surgeon there is a new procedure called 'tavr' which may be beneficial.
i am female 71 with type 2 diabetes stage 4 kidney failure and obstructive sleep apnea. what would the prognosis of aortic valve replacement?
depends on many factors. get expert opinions from your cardiologist and cardiac surgeon.
what medical problems would cause simeone to gain15 pounds in one month when they aren't overeating. 47 year old female?
15 pounds is a lot of weight to gain in one month and you need to check this out with your own physician. bloating and swelling due to buildup of fluid in the tissues such as from heart or kidney failure certain medications like steroids and hormonal conditions like cushing's polycystic ovaries and hypothyroidism can all cause rapid weight gain like this. take care.
why all doctors say that if weightlifting and have protein diet shoud i dring plenty of water and how much is plenty? is it about dehydration or more?
rhabdomyolysis is a condition in which the muscles break down into a pigment that can get deposited in the kidneys and can cause kidney damage even kidney failure. that is why is it is recommended that people who do strenuous exercise regimen such as weight lifting drink enough water(say ~ 1 liter/day) to keep the kidneys perfused to prevent themselves from getting this complication.
if my mom have type 2 diabetes and her hba1c is 11. 5 could she eat from the sheep liver? plz i need an answer quickly thnx a lot
eating sheep liver at one meal is okay however your mother's diabetes is poorly controlled and she is at risk for a lot of complications like kidney failure blindness food ulcers and heart attack etc. she should see a doctor for proper treatment of diabetes.
mother 80 bmi 18. 4 cr 5. 3 had a seizure started dialysis and later had coma; now on 3-a week hd eating well but high depression. can hd decrease?
it really depends on the reason your mother suffers from kidney failure and the degree of damage her kidneys sustained. please discuss with her nephrologist for the best answer. the doctor will be able to tell you if hemodialysis is projected long-term.
my father has diabetes mellitus 2 and kidney failure. recently he has been suffering of blindness but just for some seconds his eyes stop to see. ?
if your father has diabetes and kidney failure it is very likely he has diabetic retinopathy as well. this is diagnosed with a dilated eye exam. blindness or blurry vision that lasts several seconds at a time could also represent ischemia or lack of blood blow to the eye or brain. this needs to be evaluated by his primary physician and an ophthalmologist.
my father has diabetes mellitus 2 and kidney failure. recently he has been suffering of blindness but just for some seconds his eyes stop to see. ?
if he has been having brief periods of visual loss he needs to be evaluated urgently to see if action needs to be taken to prevent a stroke.
may kidney failure affect the eyes of a patient with diabetes mellitus 2? !
diabetes can certainly affect the eye causing diabetic retinopathy. if someone has renal failure due to diabetes it is very likely they also have retinopathy. kidney failure may affect blood pressure which may have an affect on the eyes. it is very important to control blood sugar and blood pressure when diabetic to minimize chance of complications/diabetic retinopathy.
may kidney failure affect the eyes of a patient with diabetes mellitus 2? !
diabetes mellitus of either type is a serious disease that if not properly controlled damages the blood vessels of the body. it commonly affects the eyes (and can blind a person) heart kidneys brain and legs/feet. if a patient has kidney failure due to dm2 then it's likely that the diabetes has also affected the eyes. the diabetes must be controlled to stop the damage- c endocrinologist.
i am an 18-year-old female but my blood pressure is always 92/57-60. my bmi is 24. 2. it is naturally occurring (no meds). is it dangerous?
18 f bmi 24. 2 worries about bp 92/57. no worries. in general the lower your bp and bmi the longer you will live and the less time you will spend during your later years living with the consequences of higher bp: stroke heart attach heart failure kidney failure and aortic aneurysm. keep up the good work the only low bp to worry about is if you faint when it gets low for you.
my only symptom is fasciculations x7 months and egfr is 57 top normal creatinine (1. 0). age 35 white female normal bmi fit. is it ckd?
you don't have chronic kidney disease causing symptoms of kidney failure if your creatinine is anywhere near the reference range for your age gender and body habitus. some folks just get the twitchies and we never figure out why. go enjoy your good health.
my parents are 78 and 83 years old can they drink protein shakes?
the 2 main reasons to avoid excessive protien are liver failure and kidney failure otherwise protein shakes and supplements should be safe.
my husband had severe high blood pressure has gone from 290 to 225 has maintained weight 3 years. shouldnt his dosage be lowered? he gets liteheaded.
225 is still dangerously high. risk of stroke heart attack kidney failure and more. does he get light headed when he stands up? does it occur 1-2 hours after he takes his meds? may need to be evaluated for orthostatic hypotension and / or have the timing of his meds adjusted. please work with your dr on this one. consider seeing a good cardiologist
my father has fluid in the brain. whole body infection kidney failure and delerious also loss of appetite. he has type 2 diabetes hypertension?
we do not see a question here. apparently your father is very sick and i am sure he is in a hospital being treated by a group of doctors. i hope with proper treatment which he is receiving he recovers. he must be on antibiotics dialysis iv fluids and other supportive care probably in icu
what shall i do with a patient who had history of diabetes mellitus and anemia now experience acute kidney failure and pneumonia due to vasculitis?
1: both kidney failure and pneumonia need attention. the kidney specialist will take care of the acute kidney failure and a blood vessel specialist will take care of the vasculitis. pneumonia can be handled either by these two doctors or your primary doctor. if managed carefully under control you can also get rid of diabetes.
can i take hydroxycut and vitamins with celexa (citalopram)?
hydroxycut is by itself. risky and there are no studies that have looked at it with antidepressants or with vitamins and hydroxycut. like many so-called herbal preparations it is assumed because it is herbal it's safe. not so. hydroxycut can cause serious liver and muscle damage leading to liver and kidney failure or death according to the fda
can someone with diabetes have bariatric surgery?
diabetes is a terrible disease. it is the leading cause of adult blindness amputation kidney failure and neuropathy. also affects vascular system and others. if bmi is over 35 and diabetic your doctor should suggest bariatric surgery as a potential long term "cure" for this condition.
can enalapril cause weight gain?
if enalapril causes kidney failure then the weight gain would be related to fluid retention. if you just started it then it is standard of care to check for this with bloodwork within the first week.
how much weight loss can you lose on a water diet?
fasting is an unhealthy and unsustainable method of weight loss which is not recommended. any weight that is lost is from water and/or muscle mass loss and the weight will be gained back as soon as the fast is ended. moreover fasting can lead to serious complications such as dehydration kidney failure and other dangerous complications. see your physician to discuss healthy ways to lose weight.
why do i have man boobs even though i'm not fat?
there are many causes for this. some of these are serious conditions that need to be evaluated and treated accordingly. these causes include: malnutrition alcoholism liver problems drugs (legal and illegal) side effects (spironolactone aids meds marijuana amphetamines ) prolactin overproduction low testosterone kidney failure thyroid problems.
can i still get weight loss surgery if i am missing a kidney? i donated a kidney. am i able to get weight loss surgery?
donating a kidney is a remarkable gift to those who need it. you should be congratulated. it is however something that puts you into a category of patients at higher risk to develop kidney failure. the gastric bypass in particular is associated with a higher risk of kidney stones. and any of the surgeries can stress your one reminding kidney because of dehydration.
what will draw puss out of a wound have lymphdadema wounds from swelling can't take strong antibiotics anymore. put me in kidney failure.
although there are many possible choices for topical application of dressing product's to help treat infection it is unlikely that you will achieve much progress without reducing and controlling the swelling as well. this is important because you need to maximize blood flow to the wounded area and it is definitely reduced when there is chronic significant swelling.
what will draw puss out of a wound have lymphdadema wounds from swelling can't take strong antibiotics anymore. put me in kidney failure.
it sounds like you have a very complex medical situation with lymphedema and history of kidney failure from antibiotics. i would advise that you see your doctor immediately if you suspect you have pus (purulence) in a wound. this could be a very serious situation for you. if your doctor cannot see you right away or if you have redness discharge swelling or fever then you would have to go to the er.
what will draw puss out of a wound have lymphdadema wounds from swelling can't take strong antibiotics anymore. put me in kidney failure.
infection with lymphedema can become a complicated issue. have it evaluated by a professional and get the appropriate treatment.
does magnesium gluconate surpress your appetite?
magnesium products can cause gi upset and diarrhea. for people with kidney failure they are contra indicated since the blood level can rise to dangerous levels. on the other hand if you are on diuretics such as lasix (furosemide) it can be deficient and cause cardiac arrythmias so it should be replaced just as we replace potassium.
how long can a person live with type 2 diabetes that is not in control? no medications whatsoever is being used.
there is no way of answering this question. as blood sugars remain uncontrolled the risks of complications such as blindness kidney failure infections amputations cardiovascular events goes higher and higher. its like wearing a time bomb but not knowing when it will explode. however once complications develop there is no going back hence treat it now while you can.
can any doc tell me what's the best food to keep my kidneys in good condition?
the kidney diet also known as the renal diet is a set of guidelines for people with kidney disease. foods prescribed depend on the level of kidney failure the patient is experiencing but generally the diet involves controlling the amount of sodium potassium phosphorus protein and fluid that a person ingests. people with kidney disease should be in consultation with a renal dietitian.
can you tell me how diabetes mellitus could cause kidney failure?
it progressively worsens the kidneys. starts out by ruining different filters first more urine then start peeing proteins called albumins. this stage is called 'microalbuminuria'. as diabetic nephropathy progresses increasing numbers of glomeruli are destroyed. all this happens throughout the years.
does insulin resistance lead to kidney disease?
it is not insulin resistance that causes kidney disease but instead poorly controlled diabetes. the most common causes of kidney failure in the us are diabetes high blood pressure and age. many patients with insulin resistance have difficult to control diabetes and thus are more likely to be poorly controlled and therefore more likely to develop kidney disease.
how to clear acne? i gave up sugary/fast food years ago i drink green tea every day and take vitamins i wash my face twice a day what else can i do?
none of the things you have tried have the slightest effect on acne. your best bet is spironolactone. it is very effective not expensive ($16 for 90 days) very safe. not to be used if kidney failure or pregnancy.
highly stressed and suffer from depression and type 2 diabetes- i check my bs everyday but too scared to go to doc?
no need to be scared. you need to be concerned for long term consequences of diabetes. diabetes is one of the worst risk factors for several long term complications. if you do not treat and control the sugar it is going to lead to vascular problems such as heart attack stroke kidney failure and poor circulation etc. by the way you can get proper guidance for the depression.
can drinking too much water cause weight gain? and is it dangerous?
the only way drinking water can cause weight gain is if you have heart failure or kidney failure
dr prescribed orlistat 120mg 3 times a day for weight loss! is it safe? i read about kidney failure. 25/f/smoker/overweight and scared!
a while under doctors supervision--quit smoking more important! - smoking should make you scared when you realize how bad it is for you!
dr prescribed orlistat 120mg 3 times a day for weight loss! is it safe? i read about kidney failure. 25/f/smoker/overweight and scared!
it works like a conjugated linoleic acids (cla) in that it decreases the absorption of fat and has gi side effects fatty stools. you can get a similar effect with cla. orlistat is safe and effective. to minimize the gi effects take it with fiber. kidney failure is likely due to dehydration from the fatty stools?
are the frozen diet adkins meals really healthy?
the pluses and minuses of atkins were both overblown. the risk of heart disease or kidney disease from them is very little. it isn't the best if you have kidney failure and/or diabetic kidney problems. it's somewhat higher in fat than ideal. mainly it's not been shown to be intrinsically helpful for weight loss. changing diet changes eating cues as outlined in <link>
are there any health benefits to being overweight or obese?
there are none. the downside is the likelihood of type 2 diabetes with progression to heart disease kidney failure stroke high blood pressure kidney disease etc.
ever since i have been on a diet i have had problems with bowel movements. is it safe to take laxatives once a week? also my husband has kidney failure. he is doing peritoneal dialysis at home. how long can he live on dialysis before he has to have a
laxatives should be last resort. be sure you have at least 25 grams of fiber per day in your diet. include prunes apples oatmeal bran. peritoneal dialysis is effective. some folks have lived 10-15 years with dialysis before requiring a transplant.
ever since i have been on a diet i have had problems with bowel movements. is it safe to take laxatives once a week? also my husband has kidney failure. he is doing peritoneal dialysis at home. how long can he live on dialysis before he has to have a
make sure you are getting enough fiber and drinking enough fluids. he should get on transplant list at the earliest. if he can get kidney from a living donor even better.
ever since i have been on a diet i have had problems with bowel movements. is it safe to take laxatives once a week? also my husband has kidney failure. he is doing peritoneal dialysis at home. how long can he live on dialysis before he has to have a
weight loss and new onset of constipation are possibly the result of dietary changes however excluding problems in your colon is important. if you have undergone a recent colonoscopy then occasional laxative use is ok. i am not a dialysis expert therefore cannot answer that question to your satisfaction.
have blood in urine weight loss mild pain on sides bloating no stone in ultrasound. pus cell 0-2hpf 7 day ofloxacin taken what is this problem?
sounds serious. sounds like you might have medical kidney disease such as glomerulonephritis. this can potentially lead to kidney failure if not treated properly. return to your doctor asap.
globulin nml but is decreasing urinalysis nml and grf remains between 80-97 depending on my diet for 10 years. could low carb diet cause this or what
glomerular filtration rate estimated from a spot serum creatinine means very little; bodybuilders are all in early kidney failure. if your globulin is reasonably close to the normal range and your albumin is as well i would not be concerned especially if your physician is not.
are there official recommendations for treating gynecomastia?
gynecomastia can be caused by many things including medication side effects hormonal imbalance street drugs and alcohol liver failure and cirrhosis kidney failure hyperthyroidism tumors (pituitary adrenal testes) hypogonadism (low testosterone) malnutrition. . the recommendations depend on the cause.
how can kidney disease cause gynecomastia?
gynecomastia in men occurs when testosterone levels are decreased compared to estrogen levels. so it occurs when test. levels are decreased or estrogen levels are increased. it is (relatively) common in infant males & adolescent males. certain medicines anabolic steroids alcohol marijuana liver/thyr disease tumor malnutrition and kidney failure/dialysis can all result in hormonal imbalances
what happens if a person has diabetes but was not diagnosed with it can they have a heart attack without knowing?
hi. yes silent mi (asymptomatic heart attack) is unfortunately rather common in type 2 diabetes (and in long term poorly controlled type 1 or type 1 with kidney failure). having type 2 diabetes is a "heart attack risk equivalent" meaning having type 2 without prior mi confers the same risk of mi as being non-diabetic and having had a prior heart attack.
what is the reason of high potassium and low white cell in blood since i have ibs(consumption)? dry eyes feeling dizziness nausea headache sometimes.
high potassium is usually seen with kidney failure or taking certain medications. low white blood cell count is usually due to viral illness or bone marrow disorders. dry eyes occur in some autoimmune diseases. your physician would be best qualified to evaluate you.
what is the treatment for high potassium?
you need to see a nephrologist to determine the cause of a high potassium (hk) level. causes of hk are acute and chronic kidney failure addison's disease muscle breakdown due to meds or injuries hemolysis of red blood cells ace-i arb's aldosterone antagonists acidosis and type 1 diabetes. it is always better to treat the cause of the hk. see a nephrologist as soon as you can to do so.
what happens when lupus turns for the worst and you end up having a heart attack and kidneys start to fail?
you evaluation will clarify why you have these changes. if the lupus activity increased then antilupus therapy is changed to a more intense program. but lupus patients are at risk for atherosclerosis which can also cause a heart attacks. kidney failure can be due to lupus but other reasons can cause renal failure including medications hypertension atherosclerosis. the evaluation will clarify.
what could be the cause of elevated potassium levels?
real or not real must be determined. if real: medicines (commonly ace-inhibitors nsaid drugs septra or bactrim (sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim) arbs ) or kidney failure. it is also common for patients with longstanding diabetes and some kidney disease to develop hyporeninemic hypoladosteronism which can lead to hi potassium.
i have a kidney failure. am i more likely to have a heart attack?
according to epocrates. . ckd is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease independent of comorbidities such as dm htn and dyslipidemia. cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death for these patients and the overwhelming majority of patients with ckd will die prior to reaching the need for renal replacement therapy.
i have a kidney failure. am i more likely to have a heart attack?
kidney failure is a definite risk favor for heart attacks and strokes. be sure to follow your doctors directions faithfully and it will help!
i have a kidney failure. am i more likely to have a heart attack?
there is a higher incidence of heart attacks and strokes in persons with kidney disease.
im 27 and have a high bp can i have a heart attack? at my age?
it needs to be treated to avoid the long term consequences of stroke heart failure or kidney failure.
i have a very good health food store with a knowledgeable owner. if she suggests a certain root or herb can i use it safely for high potassium?
high potassium may cause life threatening heart rhythm. best not to mess around with it. if it is high standard treatments are: reduce dietary intake take diuretic such as furosemide take sodium bicarbonate take kayexalate (sodium polystyrene sulfonate) (under doctor's supervision). important to know why you have high potassium. kidney failure? see a nephrologist!
i'm on benicar (olmesartan) 20 mg for high blood pressure now. is this safe? will my potassium get to high or my kidneys fail? and will it control pulse rate as well
benicar (olmesartan) is a class of anti hypertensive medication called ace inhibitors. one of the side effects is high potassium and levels need to be monitored? if blood falls too low there is risk for developing kidney failure. it is a a good pressure medication and can also reduce protein " leakage " from the kidney and has other beneficial effects.
i would like to know what it means when your test results reveal that you have high potassium levels in your blood?
sometimes high potassium can be simply a lab error or when the red blood cell hemolyzed after the blood sample is not processed fast enough by the laboratory but a truly elevated potassium level can be from kidney failure ingestion of too much potassium may need to repeat the blood test to verify elevated k+ level.
i have lupus sle. i've been very dehydrated for over 2 mths causing my heart rate to spike to 148. i drink approx. 90 fl oz/day but only urinate once a day. what should i be concerned about?
you should be worried about kidney failure which sle can cause. you need blood tests.
what factors make myocardial infarction worse?
the location is a major factor: left main blockage is most likely to be fatal. proximal left anterior descending is also often fatal. patient factors such as on-going tobacco use uncontrolled hypertension diabetes anemia pre-existing heart or kidney failure and advanced age all raise the risk.
what does a high potassium level reading in the blood mean or possibly indicate? my woman's dr. called her and asked her to come in to have another blood sample taken. she called me because she's nervous. i told her that i'd try to find out what it mean
the most common cause of a high potassium level is when blood cells are broken open during blood collection or storage and these ruptured cells spill potassium into the liquid part of blod that is used for testing. sometimes a small needle used to draw the blood can cause this. sometimes when the blood is left too long before being spun down into solid and liquid components the blood cells will break leaking potassium into the part of the blood that is analyzed. there are some diseases that can cause a high potassium level like adrenal gland failure kidney failure some auto-immune diseases that affect muscle cells and a bunch of other things that are pretty serious. so while most of the time it's a problem with the way the blood was collected stored or processed (which happens sometimes and is no reflection on the skill of the people doing these tasks ) there are a few things that are pretty serious that need to be ruled out before one can chalk up a high potassium level to lab error.
what do you use to treat hyperkalemia?
treatment of hyperkalemia involves a series of interventions. the first one is usually administration of ca gluconate iv to stabilize the heart. after this glucose and insulin can be administered to shift potassium into cells. sodium polystyrene sulfate is administered orally or via an enema to bind potassium and remove it from the body. dialysis is used in the setting of kidney failure.
if someone dies of heart failure any type of heart failure will there be a rise in troponin levels?
troponin i is a marker for acute ischemia of heart. however we also see it in patients with kidney failure. so it will not be prudent to say that if troponin i are elevated that specific for heart failure. as heart failure can be due ischemic or non ischemic causes.
what could cause a peripheral bounding pulse?
bounding pulse is normal under certain condition including heavy exercise and high anxiety. it can also be associated with many pathological conditions including: hardening of the arteries chronic kidney failure anemia and high blood pressure.
what is the relation between hypertension and atrial fibrilation?
one thing to consider is a magnesium deficiency. taking a magnesium supplement is an easy thing to try and see if that helps. except for people in kidney failure it is safe to take oral magnesium without medical monitoring. magnesium plays a role in how the heart beats as well as the muscle tone of blood vessels.
how high does blood pressure get before a heart attack?
no number is the "magic number" but very high pressures (for example >200/>110) when associated with angina are considered a "hypertensive emergency" and should be promptly treated. symptoms of stroke heart failure kidney failure or encephalopathy (confusion) are the key symptoms of a hypertensive crisis.
how long does it take high blood pressure to cause heart attack? hours years what?
the problem is most people don't know when their hbp began and have already been exposed for years when diagnosed. also hbp is only 1 of many risk factors. it is actually a more potent risk factor by far for stroke and congestive heart failure than for heart attack. (also kidney failure). treating it lowers the risk.
hi. i am presently taking metprolol and lisinipril. also have kidney failure that is presently improving. is it safe to take turmeric? thank you
the kidney disease can be from the hypertension or vise versa. tumeric is a supplement that will not interact with your current blood pressure meds in general doses. ask your doctor prior however as he knows your history.
how quickly can doctors find the root cause of low potassium? are there lots of tests that have to be done? i don't take any meds that would cause it.
chronic kidney failure diabetic ketoacidosis diarrhea excessive sweating excessive use of laxatives prescription diuretic (water or fluid pills) use primary aldosteronism occasionally primary edema.
hello professionals! thank you in advance. my father 75 yearly male with c. o. p chf is now having kidnney failure with creatine levels high potassium ok. what else besides dialysis is rec?
you describe one of the most complicated scenarios in medicine: a person with clinically signification heart failure lung disease and now renal failure. not everyone with chronic kidney disease needs dialysis. if his heart failure medications and diuretics can be adjusted he may be able to avoid dialysis for a long time. if he has acute kidney failure. the options are less.
how high does the troponin result be to signal a heart attack?
in the proper setting with chest pain & abnormal electrocardiogram an elevated troponin (highly sensitive version) can indicate heart damage. however there are other possible explanations for an elevated level. these include congestive heart failure pulmonary embolism (blood clot in the lungs) or kidney failure. the pattern of the elevation over time is also useful.
how high can bp rise with anxiety? can anxiety cause heart attack?
anxiety causes release of adrenaline like compounds which stiffen the blood vessel walls increase the heart's efficiency and divert blood to the critical organs all which increase bp. repeated or continuous stress elevates bp and causes gradual damage over many years. resulting in heart attack kidney failure or stroke.
how can the excretion of digoxin work in a patient with kidney failure?
16 % of digoxin is metabolized by the liver. in complete renal failure not on dialysis the dose is given every 3-4 days. dose is adjusted by measured levels.
my bnp level is 319. is this considered serious or some kind of trend later in life for chf?
bnp has may causes like kidney failure increase pressure in the lungs and many other. bnp level doesn't predict who will go into heart failure.
my pressure last few days was high highest 167 /100. but after taking water pill which u missed for a few weeks now my pressure went diwn to 136/74 after taking ekg and ultra sound which prvd semigood?
there are many bp meds including diuretics (water pills) that are only $4 at chain pharmacies. there's no reason for most people with high bp to run out. keeping bp under control is important for bp as high as yours to prevent stroke heart failure and kidney failure.
slow breathing but fast heart rate what i the cause?
there are many conditions associated with rapid heart rate and slow or irregular breathing such as panic attack drug overdose narcotic abuse supraventricular tachycardia acute stress reaction thyroid storm acute kidney failure etc.
i had strep throat was unable to treat it(i'm allergic to meds)and cleared tues. now i'm dehydrated sleep deprived coughing and my ribs and chest hurt.
there are alternative meds. strep throat must be treated as sequelae of untreated group s strep infection include scarlet fever rheumatic fever kidney failure. stay calm & follow up immediately.
please explain why someone with hyperkalemia would be given?
treatment of hyperkalemia involves a series of interventions. the first one is usually administration of ca gluconate iv to stabilize the heart. after this glucose and insulin can be administered to shift potassium into cells. sodium polystyrene sulfate is administered orally or via an enema to bind potassium and remove it from the body. dialysis is used in the setting of kidney failure.
pth blood level was elevated. ekg showing short qt interval. does this mean my calcium blood level is too high?
hypercalcemia can cause a short qt interval but the best way to answer the question is to measure blood calcium. high pth could also be a consequence of vitamin d defieciency and kidney failure.
what are some of the risk factors for getting hyperkalemia?
ace inhibitor diabetic ketoacidosis renal tubular acidosis spironolactone acute kidney failure.
why would someone with high potassium/kidney failure need 24 hr nursing care after potassium is normalized? mom in icu.
there are a tremendous number of variables that go into the determination of patient needs. a blanket statement about a problem that may or may not resolve with treatment is mere speculation. some with acute kidney failure improve well enough to go back to work some require frequent dialysis. the proper assess can only be made knowing all the variables in the specific case.
not feeling very well. blood pressure is 145/105 and my chest feels weird head hurts. can i be having a stroke or heart attack. blood pressure fluctuates between 170 /102 to todays 145/105.
you are describing rather severe hypertension which is uncontrolled! you are at increased risk for heart disease stroke kidney failure and accelerated atherosclerosis. you really should seek medical evaluation immediately at an er or urgent care facility. you should be on aggressive treatment for your high blood pressure.
hi there mom has pacemaker for 6 days now her legs started swelling has developed a cough and last night battled to breathe also kept waking up in?
a person who has heart disease and then gets legs swelling shortness of breath and cough. . may have congestive heart failure. the usual care is to go see the doctor now at the doctor's office or at the er. the er can take care of such issues and consult a cardiologist as needed. if a person has a heart attack or kidney failure she can also have symptoms like these.
please help! what happens when your blood pressure is too high or too low?
for the most part high blood pressure for a short time days to months won't make too much of an effect which is why it's referred to as the silent killer. of course if it's too high for a longer period of time you can end up w/stroke heart failure kidney failure etc. blood pressure that's too low can make you feel weak woozy lightheaded dizzy & possibly even faint. think like goldilocks
what's a hypertensive crisis? if i notice a spike in my blood pressure what should i do?
extremely high blood pressure — a top number (systolic pressure) of 180 millimeters of mercury (mm hg) or higher or a bottom number (diastolic pressure) of 120 mm hg or higher — damages blood vessels. they become inflamed and may leak fluid or blood. as a result the heart may not be able to pump blood effectively. causes of a hypertensive emergency include: forgetting to take your blood pressure medication stroke heart attack heart failure kidney failure rupture of your body's main artery (aorta) interaction between medications convulsions during pregnancy (eclampsia). a hypertensive crisis is divided into two categories: urgent and emergency. in an urgent hypertensive crisis your blood pressure is extremely high but your doctor doesn't suspect you have any damage to your organs. in an emergency hypertensive crisis your blood pressure is extremely high and has caused damage to your organs. an emergency hypertensive crisis can be associated with life-threatening complications. signs and symptoms of a hypertensive crisis that may be life–threatening may include: severe chest pain severe headache accompanied by confusion and blurred vision nausea and vomiting severe anxiety shortness of breath seizures unresponsiveness. if you experience a severe increase in your blood pressure seek immediate medical attention. treatment for hypertensive crisis may include hospitalization for treatment with oral or intravenous medications.
what does it mean if a patient with congestive heart failure has cyanosis coupled with liver and kidney failure?
this organs all are affecting each other. congestive heart failure affects liver and both cause kidney problem. it's possible to control heart liver and kidney failure by specific measures and medications in most of the cases.
what is a shunt in the arm for after a heart attack?
intravenous common arterial monitors common shunt unusual unless renal- kidney failure and dialysis.
what are some early indicators of high blood pressure?
high blood pressure can cause headaches bloody noses and other symptoms. if you suspect you have high bp you should see your doctor. untreated high bp can lead to stroke heart attack kidney failure and other problems.
what can i do to treat water retention?
the best way to get rid of water retention is to find out what is causing it. there are several reasons to retain water kidney failure heart failure and varicose veins among others. the treatment of water retention due to heart failure is different from that due to varicose veins. see a physician and be evaluated properly so you can follow a sure road leading to the elimination of your problem.
what could increased creatine kinase and aldolase levels indicate?
creatine kinase and aldolase would both be elevated after a muscle injury. ck can also be elevated in kidney failure. adolase can be sub-classified into a b and c which helps differentiate from which tissue the high levels came.
what happens if the blood pressure is too low or too high?
too high pressure causes heart attacks strokes and kidney failure. too low pressure can cause these and other problems. something like an electric device too much current it burns out too little current it doesn't work.
which sort of condition that could induced hypertension causes?
consistent elevated blood pressures above 140 or 90 mmhg can lead to blood vessel damage atherosclerosis and blockages. over time high blood pressure can cause heart attacks angina strokes heart failure (chf) and kidney failure. diet (weight loss and low salt) less alcohol and more exercise can reduce bp. drug treatment is safe and effective though some people need more than one drug.
what conditions are a result of high blood pressure?
heart attack stroke kidney failure.
what is fabry disease? can someone tell me about fabry disease in spanish?
fabry disease is a rare genetic disorder in which the body doesn't make enough of the enzyme alpha-galactosidase a. it affects many parts of the body and can cause: kidney failure heart attacks and strokes among other symptoms. i'm sorry the answer is not in spanish but this website: <link> uses google translate to provide information in spanish.
what is the life expectancy for someone with stage 5 kidney failure? dialysis and transplant are not options because the heart is to weak.
peritoneal dialysis is very gentle on the heart and lungs. most hearts can handle it. for this reason cld stage v may not be the end of the road.
what is the life expectancy for someone with stage 5 kidney failure? dialysis and transplant are not options because the heart is to weak.
about 5 years with good medical care.
what can cause poor circulation in only the right hand?
vascular problems can be classified into either traumatic compressive occlusive tumors/malformations and vasospastic (spasm of the artery which reduces its diameter and thus its blood flow). vascular problems may occur in individuals with diabetes hypertension or kidney failure or in dialysis patients. occupational exposure (vibrating tools cold) and smoking can be a factor too. see an md.
what are the most effective high blood pressure medications?
their are many types of effective blood pressure medication. . treatment should be tailored to the individual patient based on medical conditions. if the patient has heart disease beta blockers are considered best medicine. if the patient has diabetes or kidney failure then angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are best. many times combinations will be needed.
what was wrong with baycol that got it taken off the market?
baycol was s cholesterol lowering statin drug (like lipitor (atorvastatin) and zocor) that was taken off the market in 2001. it was apparently linked to the deaths of 52 people-- mostly due to severe muscle damage(called rhabdomyalisis) and subsequent kidney failure. the company at the time felt it was too risky to continue to market it and voluntarily withdrew it from the market to prevent further issues.
what best for lunch and dinner for kidney failure patient with high blood pressure and diabetics?
the dash diet was recently selected by leading nutritionists endocrinologists and internists as the best diabetic diet. <link> has more information (i have no affiliation with these folks). weight watchers was selected as being easiest to follow if that is more of a problem for you. good luck and stick with it!
what would be the symptoms of kidney damage from a very high ck level?
decreased urine output change in urine colors nausea fatigue and signs of kidney failure.
what evidene exists on short-term cocaine use on the cardiovasulature heart brain blood supply or the central nervous system? is damage reversible?
cocaine causes blood vessels to shrink down (vasoconstrict). this increases blood pressure and decreases blood flow to vital organs. this can cause strokes kidney failure heart attacks etc. the constriction is temporary but the damage can be permanent.
what effects do hiccups have on your heart? i've been having hiccups every 45 minutes for over a year now. should i get it checked out? they get closer together as i'm more active and further apart when i'm relaxed. i've gotten so used to them that i har
hiccups may be a sign of an underlying medical condition so yes you should "get it checked out" there are cases when an infection tumor or damage from trauma may affect the way your body normally controlls the hiccup reflex therefore increasing the occurence of hiccups. examples of such problems include stroke multiple sclerosis tumors meningitis encephalitis brain injury secondary to trauma metabolic disorders and drugs. in addition the following can trigger long-term hiccps: alcoholism anesthesia barbiturates diabetes electrolyte imbalance kidney failure and steroid use. this problem definitely warrants a visit to your primary care provider for a detailed history and physical. good luck.
what is an explanation of ischemia?
low blood flow to tissue. not enough oxygen delivered any organ with ischemia is probably not working well and the product of that organ diminished. heart-low cardiac output kidney failure brain stroke limb gangrene.
what does ischemia cause in the body?
any organ with ischemia is probably not working well and the product of that organ diminished. heart-low cardiac output kidney failure brain stroke limb gangrene.
what are common signs and symptoms of ischemia?
any organ with ischemia is probably not working well and the product of that organ diminished. heart-low cardiac output kidney failure brain stroke limb gangrene.
what symptoms and conditions are associated with ischemia?
which part of the body? heart heart attack brain stroke kidney failure.
what are the risks of atherosclerosis?
this is a disease of the arteries and can affect all of them. . the major problems depend upon the blood vessels affected and include heart attack stroke kidney failure leading to dialysis and loss of limb.
why does vascular disease develop in diabetics?
diabetes can lead to protein changes and inflammation leading to atherosclerosis or narrowing and stiffening of blood vessels. depending on the location these narrowed arteries may cause heart attack (heart or coronary arteries) stroke (carotid) amputations due to infection/poor healing (legs & feet) blindness (eyes) and kidney failure (kidneys).
what is the significance of essential hypertension?
think of high blood pressure as stressing almost every organ and vessel in the body (increases wall tension of vessels and increases plaque build-up). it is often called the "silent killer" because usually there are no symptoms but over years can result in cardiac disease heart failure kidney failure decreased circulation in feet blindness and stroke.
what is restless leg syndrome? what are some symtons of restless legs syndrome and what cause it?
people with restless legs syndrome feel a peculiar sort of discomfort in their legs which gets worse the longer they sit still. moving the legs gives temporary relief but the urge to move the legs quickly returns. sufferers often describe the sensation as if insects are crawling on their legs. symptoms tend to be worst when trying to fall asleep at night but can also occur during the day. restless legs syndrome is due to abnormal function in certain regions of the brain that produce dopamine a chemical messenger used in some nerves. the majority of restless legs sufferers have iron deficiency which interferes with production of dopamine. restless legs syndrome is also common during pregnancy and in people with kidney failure. certain medications especially antidepressants can also cause restless legs syndrome. however some people with restless legs have no other identifiable medical problems. correcting iron deficiency and stopping contributing medications will cure the majority of cases of restless legs syndromes. pregnancy-related restless legs syndrome usually disappears within a few weeks of giving birth. however a number of medications can treat the disorder if other measures are not effective.
what is sarcoidosis? what are the conditions of sarcoidosis what are the causes and can people recover without any treatment?
sarcoidosis is an uncommon disease whose hallmark is the formation of tissue nodules known as granulomas. ordinarily granulomas form when the immune system is confronted with microorganisms that are very difficult to kill. white blood cells pile on the invaders and try to wall them off from the rest of the body. in sarcoidosis the granulomas have nothing at their centers. despite the resemblance to certain infections sarcoidosis is not contagious and no infectious agent has ever been proven to cause the disease. the cause of sarcoidosis remains unknown. symptoms of sarcoidosis depend upon the extent and location of the granulomas. the lungs are the most common site for sarcoidosis and may lead to cough or shortness of breath. however sarcoidosis is often found when a chest x-ray is done for an unrelated reason. involvement of the skin liver and eye and brain are not unusual and may present as rashes liver disease eye inflammation seizures or mental changes. heart and kidney failure can also occur. the disease can be very difficult to diagnose as it can resemble many other medical conditions including tuberculosis leprosy certain fungal infections and multiple sclerosis. sarcoidosis frequently stabilizes or disappears without any treatment usually within 2-5 years. however some people will have persistent or aggressive disease and may require intense suppression of the immune system to prevent life-threatening complications.
what is the prognosis with a pheochromocytoma?
they are known as the "10% tumor" as approximately 10% are inherited 10% involve both adrenals 10% are cancerous and 10% seen in children. if treated properly they have a very favorable outcomes. untreated they can cause rapid fluctuation in blood pressure shock stroke heart attacks or kidney failure.
what is the leading cause of pericarditis for the elderly?
the leading cause is a viral infection namely the coxsackie or echovirus. some other causes include hypothyroidism or kidney failure. a good portion of the time a specific cause can't be determined we call that "idiopathic".
what are the consequences after an open heart surgery on a patient?
hopefully improvement in symptoms. if the surgery is for coronary disease and chest pain doing away with the pain. if it is for a leaking or too tight valve improvement in things like fatigue and shortness of breath. there of course can be bad consequences such as rhythm problems kidney failure anemia fluid around the lung pain in the incision stroke and even death.
what does it mean when an aortic aneurysm ruptures?
the biggest "pipe" in the body is the aorta. it carries blood in it. when this pipe breaks there will be massive bleeding leading to shock that maybe a precursor for heart attack stroke or kidney failure. depending upon size and location open surgical or minimally invasive endovascular stent maybe needed. please see a vascular surgeon.
what are the risks involved if you have high blood pressure?
stroke. heart attack kidney failure heart failure and many more see and search web md.
which inflammatory diseases cause pericarditis?
lupus rheumatoid arthritis and scleroderma can cause pericarditis. kidney failure (uremic pericarditis) tumors genetic diseases such as familial mediterranean fever or rarely medications that suppress the immune system can also be the cause. in a number of cases of pericarditis the cause is unknown. this is referred to as idiopathic pericarditis.
which inflammatory diseases cause pericarditis?
most common is viral pericarditis but kidney failure lupus tuberculosis some medications like hydralazine and chemo drug bleomycin can cause pericarditis.
what is calciphylaxis?
a syndrome related to kidney failure with calcium deposition in blood vessel walls and skin necrosis blood calcium levels are elevated and calcified vessels are seen on leg x-rays. abnormal function of the parathyroid gland is present due to other things a number of other proteins dealing with bone metabolism appear involved as yet. careful management of calcium and phosphorus levels.
what's so bad about high blood pressure? is it really that harmful?
over years and decades untreated blood pressure can cause heart attack stroke chf and kidney failure as well as blindness.
what's so bad about high blood pressure? is it really that harmful?
pandora it is truly like opening pandora's box! it the leading cause of congestive heart failure stroke atrial fibrillation and kidney failure. it is a major risk factor for heart attack and eye disease. yes it's a very treatable and preventable factor and it's control has been instrumental in prolonging our life expectancy in the 20th century!
what are the kinds of hypertension?
systolic (upper number) diastolic (lower number) borderline or pre stage 1 (mild) stage 2 (severe) stage 3 (especially severe - used in europe) white coat (only seen in the drs office) resistant (still elevated despite 5 drugs) malignant (causing serious symptoms like heart failure encephalopathy or kidney failure) essential (cause unknown) secondary(cause known).
what is a normal range for blood pressure?
when i started out we said your age plus one hundred for the systolic. then we said lower than 140/90. studies have shown pretty much that the lower the better if you feel well so that even lower than 120/80 which is frequently quoted as the normal blood pressure might be preferred. if you have diabetes even more important to be on the low side as kidney failure is delayed with tight bp control.
will dialysis help a patient with end-stage chf?
if concomitant kidney failure then dialysis will get rid of fluid overload symptoms.
what is the importance of blood pressure?
the blood pressure is what keeps the blood moving around the body. too low and you have shock and death. too high and you have increased chance of stroke heart attack and kidney failure.
what are some symptoms of renal artery disease?
three major problems with renal artery stenosis: 1: severe difficult to control hypertension 2: kidney failure ( detected by a blood test) 3: severe heart failure pulmonary edema severe shortness of breath.
what is the significance of elevated hypertension?
simply put hypertension-which means elevated blood pressure- can cause symptoms in and of itself in some patients. ( headache blurry vision bloody nose etc. ) more concerning it increases the risk for a vascular event( like stroke or heart attack). in extreme cases what physicians refer to as hypertensive emergency acute end organ damage can occur such as kidney failure or aneurysm.
what is the significance of elevated hypertension?
elevated hypertension is redundant <positive_smiley> hypertension is elevated blood pressure. if untreated hypertension leads to a wide array of complications such as atherosclerosis myocardial infarction stroke kidney failure leading to dialysis and loss of limb to name some.
what are treatments for atherosclerosis?
that is the whole body. generally any organ system can be adversely affected. prevention is best treatment depends on the specific system. heart attack stroke kidney failure amputation etc.
what does successful bridging with the implantable left ventricular assist device lead to?
bridging with a left ventricular assist device (lvad) implies that the device is intended to keep you alive until you get a heart transplant. it can also help control kidney failure and pulmonary hypertension that can develop from decompensated heart failure.
what is the harm of hypertension?
consistent elevated blood pressures above 140 or 90 mmhg can lead to blood vessel damage atherosclerosis and blockages. over time high blood pressure can cause heart attacks angina strokes heart failure (chf) and kidney failure. diet (weight loss and low salt) less alcohol and more exercise can reduce bp. drug treatment is safe and effective though some people need more than one drug.
what does hypertension attack in the body?
the organs damaged by htn are the heart (congestive heart failure and heart attacks) brain (strokes) and the kidneys (kidney failure).
which symptoms occur with arteriosclerosis?
hardening of the arteries. when in the heart it can cause chest pain heat attack congestive heart failure arrhythmias and death. when in the brain it can cause stroke passing out multi infarct dementia. when i the kidnesy arteries it can cuase difficult hypertension and kidney failure. when in the legs it can cause weakness claudication ulcers and delayed wound healing and or gangrene.
what are symptoms of ischemia?
any organ with ischemia is probably not working well and the product of that organ diminished. heart-low cardiac output kidney failure brain stroke limb gangrene.
what are common symptoms of high blood pressure?
almost all with htn have no symptoms till have stroke heart or kidney failure or heart attack or die suddenly. this is the reason it is called the silent killer. what we do know is that the higher it is the sooner you die and the greater percent of the time you live you suffer from cvd before you die. we know treating htn makes you live longer and suffer less from cvd. if high get treated.
what is the significance of hypertension and what can contribute to it?
hypertension is when the blood pressure exceeds 140/90 mmhg for a significant part of the day. if untreated these people have an increased incidence of atherosclerotic disease heart attack stroke and kidney failure.
what does hypertension lead to?
complications include stroke heart attack kidney failure all these are decreased by having the hypertension controlled.
what is the significance of hypertension?
hypertension is major risk factor for stroke. it can also lead to kidney failure and congestive heart failure. even severe hypertension may not cause any symptoms for years. treatment is very effective but the challenge is to convince patients to take their medicines consistently to maintain good control and to visit their physicians to ensure that blood pressure remains at optimum levels.
what can low blood pressure cause in the body?
in general low blood pressure is not a bad thing. people with low blood pressure live longer. however in some cases the blood pressure is low because of disease and then it is not necessarily a good thing. if the blood pressure is too low the patient can pass out or get weak. also the blood flow to the brain and kidneys can get too low causing mental status changes or kidney failure.
what usually results from high blood pressure?
high blood pressure is a risk factor for strokes heart attacks and kidney failure which is why it needs to be treated even if you feel well.
what usually results from high blood pressure?
hypertension is when the blood pressure exceeds 140/90 mmhg for a significant part of the day. if untreated these people have an increased incidence of atherosclerotic disease heart attack stroke and kidney failure.
what is the survival of someone with pancreatitis who develops ards?
most people with acute pancreatitis have mild-to-moderate disease with little long term consequences. severe pancreatitis is characterized by pancreatic necrosis leading to temporary organ dysfunction such as respiratory failure kidney failure etc. the mortality rate associated with acute lung injury is significantly affected by the baseline health of the affected person.
what can arteriosclerosis cause?
atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries can cause multiple issues - heart attack stroke death kidney failure limb loss and blindness. risk of athero is also able to be decreased - don't smoke exercise eat a healthy diet.
what does it mean to have a blood pressure of 150/100? how serious is it?
there is a linear relationship of the risk of stroke heart failure and kidney failure with blood pressure elevation over 140/90. yes you need evaluation and treatment.
what kind of effects does smoking with high blood pressure have?
smoking causes the vessels to conrtact and elevate blood pressure. over time hardening of the arteries occurrs. you get into a viscious cycle of this along with elevation of cholesterol and one can have clogged blood vessels in the legs abdomen heart brain and elsewhere lead to heart attack stroke kidney failure blindness amputation and worst of all impotence!
what are the effects of dehydration?
acute kidney failure rapid heart rate low blood pressure sodium problems and others.
what kind of condition is dropsy?
dropsy is an older term for swelling which represents salt and water retention and which may occur in the lungs and/or legs. it is most commonly a result of heart or kidney failure but could also be a manifestation of inadquate venous or lymphatic function.
what sort of disease is chronic high blood pressure?
chronic uncontrolled high blood pressure may produce no symptoms until a heart attack stroke heart failure dementia peripheral arterial disease or kidney failure appear. lifestyle and pharmacologic therapies are very effective in controlling the bp and the commensurate reduction in risk. see your doctor.
what are some preventative test you can take to prevent congestive heart failure? what are the signs? what is congestive heart failure and how is it caused and what is the result of the body after congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure (chf) is a condition in which the heart is unable to move blood efficiently and fluid builds up in the lungs and the tissues of the body (especially the legs). it is the common end result of a variety of problems including direct injury to the heart kidney failure and lung disease among others. the best way to prevent chf is to eat a healthy diet avoid tobacco exercise regularly and keep your cholesterol and blood pressure under control. if you already have problems with your heart kidneys etc then it's important that you take whatever medications your doctor has prescribed and try to control the other items mentioned as much as possible.
what would cause water retention in both legs? all blood work have been done its all good. did a urinalisis good. has high blood pr. & diabetes.
congestive heart failure needs to be ruled out. kidney failure is also possible with long standing diabetes. blood clots in the legs excessive salt intake poor blood pressure control low albumin levels need to be considered.
what are the side effects of cholesterol preventive drugs?
damage to muscle liver and kidney and liver- can lead to fatal liver and kidney failure.
what kind of pills or treatment can somebody get for congestive heart failure?
there are multiple kinds of heart failure. systolic which is due to a weak heart. diastolic which is more related to excess fluid and stiff heart walls or kidney failure. another way to break down is left sided which causes fluid in lungs vs right sided which engorges veins but not lungs. common meds used are diuretics ace inhibitors inotropes-drugs that help pump etc. and even dialysis.
why do i always have nose bleeds? i am a 45 year old non smoking non drinking woman of normal weight. 5'4" 129lbs size 6. i am not taking any medications or supplements of any kind. i have had no recent surgeries. i do not have high blood pressure ye
you may be perfectly normal or you may have either weakness of the blood vessels or problems with your blood that prevent them from clotting normally. conditions that lead to weakening of the lining of the blood vessels can result in easy bleeding or excessive bleeding when an injury occurs. also blood problems that result in excess bleeding can occur with liver problems like cirrhosis or hepatitis kidney failure or even genetic problems that result from problems with the normal makeup of the blood. if you have periods still are they quite heavy? have your nose evaluated by an otolaryngologist and cauterized if it bleeds heavily in the exam room consider a complete blood count blood chemisty hepatitis and liver panel. a coagulation workup by a hematologist may also be a good idea if these fail to realize the cause. it also may be you are perfectly healthy and these are normal findings. i hope this helps.
who knows about pericarditis?
the sac-like covering around the heart (pericardium) becomes inflamed in pericarditis. pericarditis can be associated with diseases such as: autoimmune disorders cancer (including leukemia) hiv infection and aids hypothyroidism kidney failure rheumatic fever tuberculosis.
what kind of likelihood is there of dying during a heart transplant?
dying during the surgery is very unlikely. risk of death comes after the surgery usually from blood clots that causes stroke lung and kidney failure. bleeding can also be life threathening but often can be controlled.
what dose it mean when you feet are swollen holding water?
lower leg edema/swelling is quite common resulting from heart/liver/kidney failures protein malnutrition medications (i. e. norvasc/cardizem etc. ) pregnancy veinous insufficiency blood clots/dvt infections and at times cause is unknown. so if the leg/feet swelling is something new please consult your doc for an evaluation. good luck.
what medical problems could a person have if blood pressure does not respond to drugs?
poorly controlled blood pressure can result in heart failure stroke myocardial infarction (heart attack) heart valve disease kidney failure blindness and early death. there are specific blood tests that can determine if one type of blood pressure medication would be better than another.
what would the typical vitals be of someone who is having a hypertensive emergency?
pre-hypertension generally goes above 120 systolic 80 diastolic. recent guidelines gave 140/90 and higher bp readings as hypertension. but the numbers are a range in people who don't have short-term serious illnesses. over time the constantly high bp damages your blood vessels. complications from this include : heart attack stroke kidney failure loss of eyesight. these are emergent goto ed
why doesn't my lasix work? i take 60mg of lasix and i also take atenolol spironolactone and k-dur. i am always swollen in my legs ankles and top of feet. the water pills don't work every day like they should. i have hypertension hypertensive cardiovasc
diuretics like lasix (furosemide) may help decrease your leg swelling but better to look at the causes and treat them. venous disease (venous incompetence) cv disease especially congestive heart failure hypertension kidney failure poor nutrition inactivity and having legs in a dependent position for most of the day and obesity are all reasons to have swollen legs. suggestion: see a phlebologist who can evaluate you and advise best treatment.
what does it mean when your feet swells?
swelling of the feet is called pedal edema. it can be caused by several things including kidney failure heart failure liver failure. a blood clot in the legs can also cause this problem but it is usually also associated with pain and redness in the legs.
what are the symptoms that are associated with vasculitis?
symptoms and signs can be very nonspecific - everything from a rash to kidney failure. a rheumatologist would probably be the best physician to assure the diagnosis.
what are the symptoms of kidney failure if high blood pressure?
both high blood pressure and kidney failure are dangerous because they are not easily detectable. kidney failure usually will not be evident until the more advanced stages at which point patient may experience poor appetite nausea and weight loss. swelling of the legs and blood in urine can also be seen in some forms.
what are the symptoms of kidney failure if high blood pressure?
higher bp as kidneys cannot get rid of salt stroke heart failure and death are some of the signs. specialize in this and happy to help.
what over-the-counter medicine to avoid when taking ziac (bisoprolol and hydrocholorthiazide) for high blood pressure?
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are generally not recommended with high blood pressure or kidney failure. also decongestants can cause elevation of high blood pressure so they should also be used with caution.
what are problems with baycol?
baycol was a statin drug that lowered cholesterol ( like lipitor (atorvastatin) and zocor) that was voluntarily removed from the market in 2001. this was because it was linked to the deaths of 52 people- mostly due to muscle damage that led to kidney failure.
which are side effects of simvastatin for the cholesterol?
primary side effects of statins in general are muscular either aches or in more severe cases ( and less common) muscle breakdown (rhabdomyolysis) which can lead to kidney failure and can be life threatening. statins can also increase the risk of diabetes primarily in those at risk for diabetes and this does not seem to offset the benefits in those who qualify for statin therapy. see addtional.
with high blood pressure and type 1 diabetes is there a particular bp medication that would be better than others?
people with type 1 diabetes are at risk for kidney failure and meds in the ace inhibitor class (generic names end in -pril) or arb class (generic names end in -sartan) have been shown to provide more protection to the kidneys.
why is hypertension a factor in causing chronic renal failure?
hypertension is one of the leading causes of kidney failure. hypertension causes scarring in the kidney which leads to decreased function.
why? would someone in renal failure have decreased cardiac output?
decreased cardiac output can contribute to reduced kidney function. kidney disease is often associated with heart problems that reduce cardiac output. high blood pressure and volume overload with kidney failure can also reduce heart output. it's often difficult to sort out cause and effect in these situations.
waht causes pulmonary edema?
anything that allows fluid to leak from the blood or lymphatics into the lung tissue and air spaces. infection heart failure sever protein malnutrition trauma kidney failure etc can all do it. overwhelming the hydrostic equilibrium or decreasing the oncotic pressure all allow fluid to move into the lung.
what is the toxic dose of furosemide for humans?
too much furosemide can cause overdiuresis with too much urination and dehydration and therefore low blood pressure -(orthostasis) as well as too low a potassium. too much diuresis or dehydration of the kidneys can also lead to kidney failure. if one already has low kidney function then the dose is much lower than for a normal kidney. it depends over a whole range of factors.
what can i expect after being diagnosed with fabry disease?
this is a rare form of sphingolipidosis (dysfunctional metabolism of sphingolipids) due to deficiency of alpha galactosidase enzyme a leading to accumulation of the lipid in different organs. it presents as pain kidney failure hypertension cardiomyopathy neuropathy fatigue skin & eye lesions. life expectancy is 40-60 years.
what are the effects and symptoms of high cholesterol levels?
asympotmatic. high cholesterol by itself does not produce any symptoms. it is a risk factor for atherosclerosis of blood vessels that can cause many diseases e. g. heart attack stroke gangrene kidney failure etc.
what causes cpk levels in the 5000 range and what problems would it cause?
elevated cpk indicates muscle damage and can be resolving or ongoing. there are many causes of this but the main issue is that it can lead to kidney failure since the muscle breakdown proteins aren't filtered well by the kidneys. also ongoing muscle damage can lead to compartment syndrome a surgical emergency.
what are the symptoms of fabry disease?
this is a rare form of sphingolipidosis (dysfunctional metabolism of sphingolipids) due to deficiency of alpha galactosidase enzyme a leading to accumulation of the lipid in different organs. it presents as pain kidney failure hypertension cardiomyopathy neuropathy fatigue skin & eye lesions. life expectancy is 40-60 years.
which organs are effected in htn?
almost all of your organs may be effected by htn. the heart and all the arteries are effected by htn. the organs that are most commonly effected are the heart[ heart disease and heart failure ] kidneys [kidney failure ] eyes[ blindness] and brain [stroke]if hypertension is chronic and untreated.
what is the life expentancy for a 66 year old woman with stage 4 kidney failure and congestive heart failure and diabetes?
according to this website: <link> ncbi. nlm. nih. gov/pubmed/22442392 men and women aged 40 years had a life expectancy of 30. 5 and 34. 6 years at egfr? 60 ml/min/1. 73 m(2) 24. 5 and 28. 7 years at egfr 45-59 ml/min/1. 73 m(2) 14. 5 and 16. 5 years at egfr 30-44 ml/min/1. 73 m(2) and 10. 4 and 9. 1 years at egfr 15-29 ml/min/1. 73 m(2) respectively. patients with diabetes and chf can live shorter.
what is the life expentancy for a 66 year old woman with stage 4 kidney failure and congestive heart failure and diabetes?
but it can be extended with dialysis. no one must die from kidney failure in the 21st century. removing fluid with dialysis will also help the chf.
why would a patient in renal failure get decreased cardiac function?
usually it is the decreased cardiac function that leads to kidney failure due to lack of blood flow. however the two illnesses in general share many contributing factors like high blood pressure and diabetes.
why aneurysm always happen to patients who is having a dialysis?
dialysis patients in general will have atherosclerosis ( not all ) as kidney failure is part of that disease so they may have higher incidence not every dialysis patient will have aneurysm.
what is the cause for restless leg syndrome? experiencing it night and day! also having lower back pain.
no known cause for restless legs syndrome exists. researchers suspect the condition may be due to an imbalance of the brain chemical dopamine. this chemical sends messages to control muscle movement. rls runs in families in at least half the people with rls especaily early age. rls sometimes accompanies other conditions. pregnancy peripheral neuropathy. iron deficiency. kidney failure.
what are the signs of preeclampsia besides bp?
there are several signs and symptoms of preeclampsia. these can include high blood pressure protein in the urine visual disturbances headaches low platelets elevated liver function tests kidney failure or fetal growth restriction. it is important to remember that these symptoms can occur in other conditions and none of these alone means you necessarily have preeclampsia.
what is post renal transplant hypertension?
about 90% of kidney transplant recipients have hypertension after the transplant. however nearly all patients with kidney failure on dialysis have hypertension. this is not restricted to those who have lost their kidney function to uncontrolled hypertension. the reasons are many and include long-term damage to the blood vessels and heart as well as drugs that cause retention of salt.
what's furosemide and what is it used for?
lasix (furosemide) is a powerful diuretic meant to remove excess fluid and sodium from the body. it is used primarily to treat conditions such as congestive heart failure and kidney failure.
what are signs of bad circulation?
to possible arterial blockages. check blood pressure pulses have an exam. some other conditions diabetes endocrine issues can cause the feeling without any critical blockages. severe with cold digits or limbs to gangrene if not repaired timely. also depends on part of body-brain stroke heart attack kidney failure.
what are the effects of hypertension on kidneys?
high blood pressure makes the heart work harder and over time can damage blood vessels throughout the body. if the blood vessels in the kidneys are damaged they may stop removing wastes and extra fluid from the body. the extra fluid in the blood vessels may then raise blood pressure even more. it's a dangerous cycle. high blood pressure is one of the leading causes of kidney failure.
would cardiac related teeth pain be located more in the upper or lower jaw? some ear pain too- all left sided. should this be concerning ?
jaw pain - upper or lower - can be related to heart disease. other causes include sinus or ear infections. at your age it would be unusual to have a heart attack but it's possible - especially if you have risk factors such as smoking high cholesterol diabetes kidney failure. i think it would be reasonable to be seen and evaluated. good luck. lgromkomd.
what can go wrong during a quadruple heart bypass?
the most concerning complications are stroke kidney failure pneumonia bleeding and infection. these are rare. the most common complications are irregular heart rhythm constipation and fluid retention. the vast majority of patients (98%) have minimal self limiting complications go home in three days and are driving and back to work (not strenuous) in 3-4 weeks.
what can go wrong during a quadruple heart bypass?
stroke death bleeding infection kidney failure etc. however the incidence of these things is relatively low for someone of your age. the older we get the higher the incidence of such risks.
why is high cholesterol bad for you? what does it do?
elevated cholesterol over time can contribute to the development of atherosclerotic disease and narrowing of the bodies blood vessels. this contributes to high blood pressure heart attack stroke and kidney failure. that's why we try and control that risk.
what to do if i think i may have high blood pressure. what are the signs?
the most common symptom of high blood pressure is nothing. by the time symptoms develop pressure is exceedingly high or has been high without being detected and treated. headaches bloody noses chest pain strokes kidney failure or shortness of breath can occur due to untreated hypertension.
what risks are associated with congestive heart failure and pregnancy?
of chf and its complications such as kidney failure fetus blood supply issues sudden cardiac arrest heart attack. . <link>
what are the reasons for getting blood pressure in earlier?
i presume you mean getting bp in control earlier. the longer one has high blood pressure the more damage is done to the vasculature and the greater chance for stroke heart attack and kidney failure. if the bp is controlled the risk diminishes significantly.
what could happen if your cholesterol exceeds 300?
elevated cholesterol over time can contribute to the development of atherosclerotic disease and narrowing of the bodies blood vessels. this contributes to high blood pressure heart attack stroke and kidney failure. that's why we try and control that risk.
what can high blood pressure do?
high blood pressure damages arteries leading to atherosclerosis. this leads over many years to gradual blockage of arteries and eventually to heart attack (death of heart muscle from lack of blood) angina and stroke. high blood pressure also damages the kidneys and heart muscle and can lead to chf and kidney failure. it also increases risk of dementia. treatment is safe and effective.
which type of issue that could induced hypertension causes?
consistent elevated blood pressures above 140 or 90 mmhg can lead to blood vessel damage atherosclerosis and blockages. over time high blood pressure can cause heart attacks angina strokes heart failure (chf) and kidney failure. diet (weight loss and low salt) less alcohol and more exercise can reduce bp. drug treatment is safe and effective though some people need more than one drug.
what will having low blood pressure do to the body?
the blood pressure is what keeps the blood moving around the body. too low and you have shock and death. too high and you have increased chance of stroke heart attack and kidney failure.
what risks are associated with low and high blood pressure?
low: dizziness loss of consciousness organ shut down eg acute kidney failure death. high: none in the short run unless extremely high. in the long run: stroke congestive heart failure chronic kidney failure heart attack aortic aneurysm death.
what are the the risks & drawbacks of heart bypass surgery - not the benefits?
risks include death stroke heart attack kidney failure respiratory failure bleeding and infection. gi or bowel or liver complications are much less frequent but can occur. the drawback is that it is a major operation that may take 2 - 3 months to fully recover from. the good news is that the overwhelming majority of patients do very well with marked improvement in quality of life afterward.
why do people even in their 20's get heart attacks and kidney failure?
the disease homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia can cause heart attacks in someone in their 20's. people with this have cholesterol levels above 500. i have also seen a couple patients with diabetes and who smoke who have had heart attacks in their 20's. kidney failure while young can be caused by inherited or autoimmune kidney disease both of which are relatively rare.
what are potential complications or risks following a heart bypass surgery?
heart surgery is risky - there are risks of stroke heart attack liver failure kidney failure infection bleeding even death. however for some patients depending on their individual medical condition and heart blood vessel anatomy having heart surgery is less risky than not having heart surgery. many many studies have been devoted to trying to identify who these patients are.
whats wrong when blood pressure is 142/102.
this number is way to high. this is referred to as high blood pressure (bp) or hypertension. the current recommendation is to maintain a bp of 120/80 or below. if left untreated high bp leads to stroke kidney failure and heart complications. the most common cause of high blood pressure is genetics. chose your parents wisely <positive_smiley> do yourself a huge favor and have it checked by your family doc!
what exactly does it mean to have very low blood pressure?
the blood pressure is what keeps the blood moving around the body. too low and you have shock and death. too high and you have increased chance of stroke heart attack and kidney failure.
woud you please discuss the complications that can arise from triple bypass heart surgery?
heart attack stroke death major infection kidney failure. however the reality is that overall risk is low.
what does lower high blood pressure?
lifestyle changes such as losing weight exercising regularly decreasing sodium (salt) intake avoiding alcohol and excessive stimulants such as caffeine getting enough sleep treating sleep apnea if present all help. however blood pressure tends to rise gradually with age so be prepared to take some medicines in needed to prevent stroke heart attack heart or kidney failure etc.
what can i do to control my mom's high blood pressure?
lifestyle changes such as losing weight exercising regularly decreasing sodium (salt) intake avoiding alcohol and excessive stimulants such as caffeine getting enough sleep treating sleep apnea if present all help. however blood pressure tends to rise gradually with age so be prepared to take some medicines in needed to prevent stroke heart attack heart or kidney failure etc.
what does fluid retention mean?
fluid retention (f) is when one is unable to excrete an adequate amount water urine daily. it accumulates in the body usually as edema in the legs. it can be seen in both cardiac and kidney failure. another cause is liver disease due to a low serum concentration of albumin made by the liver causing f. if one has it one has to be seen by a physician for evaluation and treatment.
what are the effects of high blood pressure?
hypertension is when the blood pressure exceeds 140/90 mmhg for a significant part of the day. if untreated these people have an increased incidence of atherosclerotic disease heart attack stroke and kidney failure.
what are the symptoms of high blood pressure and when do you go into emergency?
almost all with htn have no symptoms till have stroke heart or kidney failure or heart attack or die suddenly. this is the reason it is called the silent killer. what we do know is that the higher it is the sooner you die and the greater percent of the time you live you suffer from cvd before you die. we know treating htn makes you live longer and suffer less from cvd. if high get treated.
what is the open heart surgery survival rate by age?
what condition? congenital coronary valvular etc. associated risks obese smoking diabetes kidney failure all add to risk. all things equal risk rises with each year or decade!
what does high cholesterol mean?
cholesterol is one of the fatty components found in the blood. when there is an excess amount of cholesterol in the blood stream it correlates with the formation of atherosclerotic changes in the blood vessels. this predisposes the person to heart attack stroke and kidney failure. other problems also can be seen. as such we try and keep cholesterol low in the bloodstream.
what does it mean if water retention is worse after drinking water?
when you drinking water excess water with body wastes should go out in the form of urine andc sweat. if it is not happening then we will call it as water is retaining. usually it happend in people who have either heart failuire or kidney failure or liver failure or combination of any of the above diseases.
why does diabetes result in heart kidney failures and blindness?
diabetes has become exceedingly common and so have its complications which include coronary heart disease (chd) stroke peripheral arterial disease nephropathy retinopathy and possibly neuropathy and cardiomyopathy. exact mechanisms are not clearly understood but has to do with long term effects of consistently high blood sugar levels leading to various tissue damage in certain organs.
why does diabetes result in heart kidney failures and blindness?
retinopathy (r) and nephnropathy (n) are seen in diabetic patients. they are an example of microangiopathy (m) in diabetes due endothelial dysfunction (e). m is affected more by bp as you can see in the slide. heart disease is also affected by e and it is known as macroangiopathy (ma). control of bp glucose and drugs that treat angiopathies such as ace-i agents are needed to prevent m and ma.
what r reasons for blood pressure fluctuations between 170/110 and 190/100?
the blood pressure varies depending on the activity level nevertheless both readings are dangerously high and need to be treated immediately! you are at risk of a stroke kidney failure heart problems etc.
went to my doctor for leg pains. my ck level was 3483 on wendsday. today (friday) it was 8366. i have worked out since i seen my doctor. why rising?
it's likely you've been working out a lot lately and should really ease off on it. if you do too much too fast it could result in a condition called rhabdomyolysis which is where muscles get broken down and kidney failure can develop. this can be serious if it isn't reversed so it's a good idea to slow down while things are still ok. good luck.
what are the symptoms of high blood pressure?
almost all with htn have no symptoms till have stroke heart or kidney failure or heart attack or die suddenly. this is the reason it is called the silent killer. what we do know is that the higher it is the sooner you die and the greater percent of the time you live you suffer from cvd before you die. we know treating htn makes you live longer and suffer less from cvd. if high get treated.
what is the high side of blood pressure that you would require medicine for?
is defined as equal to or greater than 140 on the top number were equal to or greater than 90 on the bottom number. high blood pressure is usually silent without any symptoms. occasionally people to know they have high blood pressure with vague symptoms of headache or pressure. the reason we treat it is to prevent complications including heart attacks strokes heart failure and kidney failure.
what tests should one perform after realizing that he has hematuria after urine cytology tests having polycystik kidney disease and hypertension? help
polycystic kidney disease (pckd) is a chronic condition and can result in kidney failure if you don't follow up regularly with your doctor. you will need regular blood work and monitoring by a nephrologist (kidney specialist) regular follow up ultrasounds or ct scans of your kidneys and you will need good blood pressure control to prevent damage to your kidneys.
what happens if you have high blood pressure and stop your meds could it cause feet swelling?
if your bp rises enough to cause congestive heart failure or kidney failure it could. stopping without supervision is not advised.
what do you suggest if my father's blood pressure is 187/108. i know that's very bad. what can happen to him?
stroke congestive heart failure kidney failure angina. he needs to have it gradually controlled.
what happens if someone has congestive heart failure and takes medicine how long do they have to live?
death in the first year can vary from 10% to 25% depending on the cause of the heart failure the severity of the heart dysfunction the age of the patient and the presence of co morbidities such as kidney failure diabetes etc. the natural history of heart failure which is progressive can be altered by medications and intervention such as bi ventricular pacing or resynchronization
when person heart is biting fast feet capillaries are explosed and feet uper side are swelled and his face colour is yellow what does it means?
people with yellowing of skin may indicate jaundice which could occur in acute or chronic liver injuries. the swellings of body can occur in congestive heart failure liver or kidney failure nephrotic syndrome and other causes of hypoalbuminic states.
what does a water pill do and how do i know if i need one?
"water pills" are lay terms for diuretics. these are several but all block the kidney from re- absorbing sodium which allows the body to eliminate excess salt and water. diuretics should only be used when there is evidence of salt and water overload as in heart failure kidney failure liver failure and in certain patients with high blood pressure. they have numerous side effects.
what kind of heart issues can happen with high calcium levels?
high blood calcium can elevate blood pressure can cause dehydration and kidney injury can cause kidney failure and can cause heart rhythm problems.
what are the causes for swollen feet? i am 73 have good health generally except for high blood pressure. i take daily walks in the morning.
venous insufficiency (when the valves in your vein no longer work) heart failure kidney failure liver failure hormonal imbalance and some medications can cause swelling of the lower extremities.
what medications are most commonly used to treat hypertension?
other underlying medical conditions: heart diesease diabetes kidney failure thyroid disease and it is a professional decision- diuretics ace inhibitors calcium channel blockers and combinations of these are quite common. arb ( angiotensin-receptor blockers ) are also quite effective and therapy must be tailored to each individual patient. want a more personalized answer to your question? › › disclaimer
will an over-the-counter diuretic replace the hct?
51 person from tx asks: will an over-the-counter diuretic replace the hct. ans: no. if hct is being given for htn it is one of the best agents we have to prevent stroke heart and brain attack heart and kidney failure and premature death and disability. no otc has been so tested. don't bet you life!
what could happen if you have low blood pressure?
the blood pressure is what keeps the blood moving around the body. too low and you have shock and death. too high and you have increased chance of stroke heart attack and kidney failure. usually symptoms are felt with blood pressure that is getting 'too' low. high blood pressure that is 'too' high may be without symptoms.
what color is the drainage from a chest tube with a a pleural effusion?
normal fluid should look like light colored urine. heart liver and kidney failure effusions will look like this. if it's an empyema it will be pus. if it's infection or something inflammatory it can be pus dark yellow or bloody. if it's a cancer it's almost always bloody.
what does hypertension cause organ damage?
complications include stroke heart attack kidney failure all these are decreased by having the hypertension controlled.
what can cause magnesium levels to be real low? how can i elevate them? (i have sarcoidosis and res card myopathy kidney failure and other diagnosis)
is common in the general population without any medical problems. since you do have medical issues particularly kidney failure you can be at a higher risk. one way to increase the magneisum is to take supplements. however anytime someone has comornidities i always recommend taking medication and supplements under physician guidance.
severe morning sickness pregnancy pregnancydieabieties preclampsia lost 25lbs induced early 1/2 blood loss acute kidney failure blood pressure 50/30 five blood tranfusions?
you're clearly high risk and need to be followed closely by a specialty team.
seems related: burning in second small toe and high blood pressure 170/111. what is that? what is a severe hbp reading?
i don't think the burning on your toe is related to your very high blood pressure but your bp is high and you need to be seen right away. if you smell smoke from your toe run to the doctor! seriously untreated high bp leads to kidney failure and heart disease over the long term and stroke & heart attack over the short (very short) term. go get checked!
what kind of high blood pressure medicine is good for elderly people?
most blood pressure (bp) medications haven't been tested per se in the elderly much less the old old say greater than 80-85yo. with that said high bp increases risk for stroke heart failure & even kidney failure. on the other hand new research warns of an increase fall risk in elderly treated w/any bp lowering drug. so the best drug for any given individual depends upon discussion w/familydoc
