what could cause pain in the upper right abdomen and back within minutes of eating sugary foods?
difficult to say. . further description of food/amount needed. sugar will involve insulin production from pancreas if icecream which has diary fat it will involve pancreas gall bladder. gas because of lactose intolerance will be more common.
i'm allergic oats iodine anything with citric acid and i'm lactose intolerant so what can i eat to lose weight and stay healthy?
first i need more info. what is y our allergy to iodine? if you had a problem with contrast material for x rays that is a special case. lactose intolerance is inability to digest mil sugar (lactose); you can still eat cheese; most people tolerate yogurt where lactose is already broken down. if citric acid bothers you you may have a problem with stomach acid. see an allergist first .
i have frequent flatulence. no known allergies and normal stool. i eat healthy. what could be wrong?
if your symptoms occur after dairy meals - it is most likely due to lactose intolerance. additionally eating lots of ruffage can cause flatulence.
i have frequent flatulence. no known allergies and normal stool. i eat healthy. what could be wrong?
a normal person eating a healthy diet can get flatulent. one reason is excess fiber. since humans don't digest the fiber intestinal bacteria will feed on it and make gas as a byproduct. another reason is lactose intolerance in which one can't digest the lactose (milk sugar) he eats. again bacteria will feed on it. a third reason is sugar alcohols like maltitol that can cause gas & diarrhea.
i have 5 to 6 times stool a day and no pain in stomach and no weight loss please tell me what to do?
see your doctor for work-up. this could be any number of things such as lactose intolerance gluten sensitivity inflammatory bowel disease such as ulcerative colitis or crohn's. with limited info this question is difficult to answer. work-up is warranted.
is the atkins diet recommended for someone who is lactose intolerant?
please read the book. it is not a prescription for all you can eat in one catagory. dr. adkins collected and promoted the research which helped many people stay with the diet and achieve long term success. there is no reason to fail simply because of lactose intolerance.
what causes your gas to suddenly smell? i have been eating better more fruits vegetables etc trying to watch my weight but have noticed a ten fold increase in the amount of gas and the smell associated with it seems to be very bad. short of over the co
the gas you pass is manufactured by the bacteria that live in your colon when they consume food substances that are not completely absorbed in the small bowel. the gas is produced primarily from incompletely absorbed carbohydrates. the undigestible fiber found in the fruits and vegetables are a wonderful feast for the bacteria resulting in an increased production of gas. interestingly the type of gasses we pas are partly due to the very specific mixture of bacteria that populate each person's colon. this is different from person to person so that the same foods don't necessarily cause the same odor in different people. an increase in gas after a change in diet is not necessarily a sign of illness. you can test this by seeing if the gas subsides by going back to your prior diet. it is possible that the gas represents a more specific problem absorbing certain types of foods (one example is lactose intolerance); you should talk to your physician to make sure.
what would be the best diet for someone with hypoglycemia and a lactose intolerance?
the hypoglycemia is treated with a six-meal low carbohydrate diet. the lactose intolerance is treated by avoiding milk products or using those with no lactose such as lactaid etc.
what would be the best diet for someone with hypoglycemia and a lactose intolerance?
eat only meat or fish or eggs or poultry and low starch veggies drink only water. in other words avoid all carbs carbs will only briefly raise your sugar levels and then your insulin levels. the fats in the meat or fish or eggs or poultry will act like a "log on your metabolic fire" to keep your blood sugar stable for hours without raising insulin.
which is better for healthy active female who doesn't want to bulk up but just tone the muscles casein or whey protein (0 fat sugar carb)?
avoid excess protein intake. . do not exceed max 1 gm per lb per day. some people demonstrate lactose intolerance with whey protein powder.
if i'm lactose intolerant should i avoid casein protein shakes?
there's more to milk than just lactose. intolerance to milk may include problems with milk proteins or even with processing the fat component of milk. if your problem resolves with concomittant use of lactase enzyme when eating the same milk products (that cause gas & diarrhea in the absence of lactase) then lactose intolerance is likely. more elegant lactose intolerance testing is available too.
iv been taking cla powder for weight loss but i feel so bloated and uncomfortable the past week could this be the cause to my bloating?
cla is found i the milk fat of dairy products and if there is lactose intolerance perhaps bloating could result.
is there a way to obtain a lactose intolerence diet plan?
check out www. drmcdougall. com or www. nutritionfacts. org. both doctors cite lots of research evidence for a low-fat plane-based diet for good health including weight loss. these diets avoid dairy products. therefore lactose intolerance is not a problem.
why has my friend's breath been smelling like pepperoni randomly? not after a specific thing like workouts. he is lactose intolerant and overweight.
(smelly breath) is a fairly complex subject. lactose intolerance is often given as a diagnosis when the real answer is the milk itself and it might be a related factor. the overweight implies that a faulty diet is the cause.
i have irritable bowel syndrome can overeating give me diarrhea?
yes. additionally food intolerance lactose intolerance or food allergies can cause these issues.
my mother inlaw started drinking almond silk in place of milk due to lactose intolerance. she needs calories due to weight loss now she is experiencing diarreah since starting it. could this be from the silk?
but there are many causes of diarrhea. if the almond silk is the cause diarrhea should resolve within a few days of stopping it. prove that almond silk is the cause of diarrhea by drinking it after diarrhea has resolved. if loose bowel movements return promptly you will have a pretty unambiguous answer. why not drink lactose-free milk?
my mother inlaw started drinking almond silk in place of milk due to lactose intolerance. she needs calories due to weight loss now she is experiencing diarreah since starting it. could this be from the silk?
yes. if she has multiple food allergies see the allergist asap.
persistent stomach pain since binging on onion dip. had been in refrigerator and used as snack by others. contaminated?
probably gas or lactose intolerance if the dip had milk fortified sour cream. food poisoning ("contamination") would cause profuse nausea vomiting and diarrhea. the others eating the dip would also be affected. the pain should improve with passage of gas or a bowel movement. make sure the cream is not molded and check the lactose content.
my 21/2yr old has viral gastroenteritis but mild passes loose stools one time once she eats dairy/fried/sugary foods. 2 weeks on now how long normal?
sometimes after a viral gastroenteritis young children can be left with mild malabsorption and relative lactose intolerance. would try lactose free milk and consider a course of probiotics to improve digestion. avoid super sugary foods and concentrate on lots of carbs such as rice and potatoes
now retired my sister and i both get bloated and get some pain after eating too much bread. test neg for gluten. is there a hereditary intolerance?
gluten-sensitive enteropathy (celiac disease) is much less common than gluten intolerance. like lactose intolerance caffeine intolerance sorbitol intolerance (with regard to needing to restrict each respective substance) people who are gluten intolerant do better to avoid gluten-containing foods. only about 10% of the population are gluten intolerant. add gluten back to diet slowly & assess.
stomach keeps rumbling. what can i do? i drink lots of water. eating helps a bit but i can't keep eating to resolve it as ill put too much weight on
rumbling in stomach can be due to 1gas in the stomach it can be due to incomplete digestion of food in intestines;growth of bacteria 2lactose intolerance due to inability to digest lactose found in milk 3irritable bowel syndrome 4aerophagia swallowing of air 5functional dyspepsia may be related to eating certain foods 6peptic ulcer/h pylori infection if associated with pain or discomfort see md.
right navel pain when walking ( fine when idle ) sometime after some meals (fast food and others : 2 years) abdominal discomfort for 5 months now ( bloating) ( 2x ultrasound + stool test : normal vitals : normal no other symptoms ) what is it?
discomfort on walking suggests abdominal muscular distress but the other symptoms raise the suspicion of irritable bowel syndrome gluten sensitivity or intolerance lactose intolerance. have these been considered by your physician or gastroenterologist?
can too much dairy in son's diet cause lactose intolerance?
lactose tolerance is a lack of enzyme lactase in the gi tract. drinking mill doesn't cause this but by definition if lactose intolerant u should avoid drinking milk.
does obesity make lactose intolerance worse?
skinny people normal people and obese people all can be lactose intolerant. the great majority of the world's population becomes lactose intolerant with age because people produce less and less lactase enzyme and will not be able to digest milk sugar. taking lactase (lactaid tablets) can help a lot. we humans are the only mammals who keep drinking milk after weaning off the breast.
does obesity make lactose intolerance worse?
lactose intolerance is due to inability to digest milk and obesity is also associated with hidden food allergy they both co-exsist. take digestive enzymes before meals glutamine to heal the gut mucosa and use medications ie supplements to support pancreas which will help both issues.
are there any problems with consuming milk products after bariatric surgery?
go for low fat milk and consider probiotics and enzymes. if you have lactose intolerance or have developed it use lactaid products.
are there any problems with consuming milk products after bariatric surgery?
some people develop lactose intolerance.
are there any problems with consuming milk products after bariatric surgery?
lowfat milk is a good source of protein. some people have lactose intolerance that seems more prominent after surgery.
completed h. pylori treatment. but now i am having excessive gas getting chest pressure/pain. my gi said its cause of overeating. but i dont. any ideas
air in the digestive tract may come from variety of sources--maldigestion due to enzyme deficiency (ex. lactose intolerance) or food intolerance (ex. gluten sensitivity) fermentation by gut bacteria (as with bacterial overgrowth syndrome or changed flora after antibiotics) altered gi tract motility excessive air swallowing as well as inflammatory & infectious causes. its easy to test 4 these.
bf 3 mo old with cow milk protein allergy. dairy free x4 wk minimal soy intake. symptoms improved but not resolved. normal weight gain. what do i do next?
consider other diagnoses: lactose intolerance food allergies colic gerd. bifidobacteria and lactobacilli has been found in infants fed with whey formula. oral probiotic supplementation can reduce the prevalence of atopic disease by stabilizing intestinal integrity increasing numbers of specific intestinal flora & reducing inflammation choose formulas that increased the number of these bacteria.
can eating too much sugar cause malabsorption (diarrhea bulky stools cramps)? if not what else could cause it?
is it diarrhea with watery stool or is it bulky loose stool? is it really malabsorption? consider pancreatic conditions lactose intolerance gluten sensitivity thyroid intestinal infections sudden change to high fiber diet to name a few. perhaps sugar substitute but not sugar.
is soy milk safe for breast cancer patients?
similar calories good for lactose intolerance and people with lactose intolorence.
y do i feel palpatations like my heart beating hard after a heavy meal? i feel relaxed after a burp. what can i do about it?
i recommend seeing your primary care provider. assess if there is any family history or past medical history of cardiac (heart) problems. this could also be related to food lactose intolerance or other factors. try to adjust your diet and identify provocative factors.
it's almost 2 years i'm on propranolol 10 and citalopram 20. i have severe intestinal flatulence because of them(i think). is there any drug to take?
there should be other reasons for that. . food h pylori lactose intolerance pancreatic insufficiency poor combination of food
heart palpitations from dairy consumption could it be lactose intoleranceo or an allergy
the heart often reacts to whats going on around it. while its not the primary problem the heart can go fast when the body is stressed. this is called reactive tachycardia. a holter (if symptoms are frequent) or a 30 day event recorder ( if only happening a few times a week or month) would be helpful. blood work along with a complete physical and possibly an echo of heart would also be part of work.
why does heart race and bp increase when i eat something with lactose? i am very intolerant to lactose.
lactose intolerance is fairly common. it occurs in people who are deficient in the enzyme which breaks down lactose the sugar that is found in dairy products. since the sugar can't be broken down symptoms develop. they are usually abdominal symptoms. your options are to avoid dairy products or to take oral lactase in some manner. talk to your doctor about these options. good luck.
shortness of breath chest pain burping and farting a lot cough that won't go away noisy stomach(not hungry) stomach cramping i had ekg and chest x-ray 2 weeks ago and they were clear. is this gerd?
have you been checked for a hiatus hernia lactose intolerance or gluten intolerance? for these symptoms try taking mylanta 1/2 hour after meals and at bedtime. an examination by a gastroenterologist would be recommended.
i have lactose intolerance and i just found out my propranolol tablets contain lactose. how can i change the brand at my pharmacy? do i need a note?
there is not enough lactose in a few pills to matter. if you think you have related symptoms it is likely something else. number 40 red die is a common aggravating factor in ibs and is in many drinks/foods.
i have lactose intolerance sometimes i have diarrhea in some episodes of this diarrhea i have tachycardia is it normal? dont have heart problems
diarrhea is common if you are consuming lactose in spite of your known intolerance. it is also common as a physical sign in irritable bowel syndrome or with incidental viral gut infections. you should expect tachycardia if you are loosing fluid volume with diarrhea or have a viral infection. you would not necessarily have tachycardia if you just had a single loose stool.
stomach pain headache excessive gas constipation and visible heartbeat in stomach had ultrasound and dr. not concerned about aaa. whats wrong?
prominent abdominal aortic pulsation may be seen in slender people or with hypertension even without aaa. your abdominal complaints may be due to irritable bowel syndrome gluten or lactose intolerance. a consultation with a gastroenterologist would be helpful for diagnosis and treatment.
what are health benefits of ghee?
rich in vit a d and e. easier to digest than butter and saturated fats in meats lactose intolerance is not issue. great to cook with due to high smoking point it won't get oxidized if left open delicious flavor. but it can raise your cholesterol lead to heart disease if not consumed in moderation. taste is very rich. big flavor means a little goes a long way. for cooking and consuming.
why would one feel very tired drained drowsy before having a bm? normal stool but slow to pass.
and best evaluated by a doctor who knows you well. a few thoughts which i hope may be a little helpful: such systemic symptoms such as fatigue and drowsiness might suggest something chemical like carcinoid syndrome but we would expect diarrhea/flushing too. inflammation may also be playing a role. i might also consider food allergy or intolerance such as milk/lactose intolerance. work with doc.
stoam hurting and when let out gas it is exsteamly foul oder i have been doing this for about 3 month. i am 62 and have had open heart surgery in 2007. i am having problem with releaseing gas that is almost to much for my family to bear this oder is ex
you may be dealing with lactose intolerance which basically means you are having difficulty digesting dairy products thus resulting in foul smelling gas. try a week free of dairy (no milk butter cheese sour cream yogurt etc. if you improve then you have your answer. there are pills you can buy over the counter that help aid in the digestion of dairy products. if this proves not to be the problem visit your doctor for a medical evaluation.
