what are your thoughts on a vlc diet for weight loss in a 32yo w/high cholesterol? had great stress echo 5yrs ago no other issues besides anxiety.
you may have either a prostate condition like prostatitis or beningn hypertrophy or a ctone in kidney ureter or bladder or an infection you need a check up and urine test and may or may not need a cat scan or ultrasound exam.
could a man who is not sexually active can get bacterial or non-bacterial prostatitis by taking amino acid & protein shakes?
these supplements while worthless do not cause prostatitis. you need to check with your pcp and/or urologist for cause and treatment.
can exercising and taking protein shakes causes bladder issues? if yes then please mention the issues and their treatments?
though some bladder or urological problems may be aggravated by exercise stress or dietary factors (alcohol caffeine spicy or acidic/citrus foods and beverages); exercise and protein shakes do not generally cause "bladder issues". interstitial cystitis and non-bacterial prostatitis are two relatively common urological problems that can be aggravated by exercise and/or dietary indiscretions.
what things should not be taken while being prostatitis infection and microcalcification in testes?
when being treated for a prostate infection (bacterial prostatitis) or inflammation (non-bacterial prostatitis) best to avoid citrus foood and drinks hot/spicy foods caffeine (coffee tea pop energy drinks) tobacco alcohol or possibly fried foods all of which are potential prostate irritants. also should avoid prolonged sitting or riding (bicycle motorcycle horses) and avoid constipation.
what things should not be taken while being prostatitis infection and microcalcification in testes?
alcohol spicy foods caffeine in excess colas. . cause of micro calcifications in testis is unknown. nothing can be done about it.
does a man get prostatitis/bladder/kidney issues if hes taking amino acid tabs and protein shakes for bodybuilding?
you have underlying kidney disease it can get worse with high protein diet.
does a man get prostatitis/bladder/kidney issues if hes taking amino acid tabs and protein shakes for bodybuilding?
these supplements will not cause any real issues.
sir i have a prostatitis infection and microcalcification. i m taking antiobiotic as well. yesterday i drank a whiskey forcefully so does it affect?
alcohol + prostatitis + antibiotics = bad combination. alcohol will exacerbate sx of prostatitis and it should not be mixed wit antibiotics.
sir i have a prostatitis infection and microcalcification. i m taking antiobiotic as well. yesterday i drank a whiskey forcefully so does it affect?
having a single shot of whiskey should not cause any issues. moderation in such things is the best policy.
sir my r testis pains. ultrasound showed microcalcification. semen test showed plenty of puscells. doctor said i have prostatitis abacterial please describe?
you have an infection of your prostate gland and antibiotics are indicated for treatment.
sir my right testis pains so ultrasound showed testicular microcalcification. dr said i have prostatitis abacterial. so can i do sitz hot bath please help?
warm sitz baths sometimes provide relief with this condition. hope you are feeling better soon!
sir my right testis pains. ultrasound showed microcalcification. doctor said i had varicolcele. whereas i m taking antiobiotic and cobal1500mcg. plz help!
you've written several times once to ask about masturbation once saying you have prostatitis and now saying you have a varcicocele. neither varcicocele nor prostatitis should cause testicular pain. but you didn't say what the urine tests showed or what antibiotic you're on. cobal is a vitamin that will not treat testicular pain. it's hard to know how to help you.
do eating too much fast food causes prostatitis?
certain things we consume may incite irritation at voiding to few people but unpredictable. however detailed history to analyze the sequence of events may suggest food-symptom connection. for an average healthy young man of 16 his genito-urinary symptoms are likely related with std )if having intercourse) or overuse of these area by obsessive masturbation although one still has to rule out uti.
right testis pains and had a microcalcification so doctor said to have semen test. semen test was normal but pus cells is plenty and volume is 1. 0.
unclear why a semen analysis was ordered for testis pain? in all likelihood you have epididymitis and prostatitis. since you mentioned micro calcifications i assume you have had a scrotal us ruling out more serious problems. antibiotics are generally indicated in such cases.
have a prostatitis infection and microcalcification. its been around 2 month taking lot antiobiotic. also puscell is plenty in semen. will i be cured?
prostatitis in young people can be treated but you have to take antibiotics for long time at least 4to 6 weeks and sometime longer.
can i drink whine while being prostatitis infection and microcalcification please help me i have a party so?
it seems like you want to drink alcohol for your party. if your doctor has told you not to do that you should not do it. not drinking alcohol will only benefit you. help yourself by doing the right thing. many people go to parties and don't drink alcohol for a safe outcome.
dr i have a prostatitis abacterial whereas ultrasound showed me microcalcification i m taking antiobiotic so what things should be avoided or not done?
no other restrictions are needed or advised.
can chronic prostatitis has anything to do with gynecomastia?
"chronic prostatitis" is not related with gynecomastia which may result from various reasons including drugs (>25 being implicated) aging puberty prolactin-producing tumors etc. because of altering estrogen/testosterone ratio although both may be within their normal range. so ask and discuss with doc about your concern.
what reactions are associated with taking ciprofloxacin for prostatitis and metoprolol for hypertension?
unless something else is in the mix there should not be any problems taking cipro (ciprofloxacin) and taking metoprolol.
what reactions are associated with taking ciprofloxacin for prostatitis and metoprolol for hypertension?
none that i am aware.
what reactions are associated with taking ciprofloxacin for prostatitis and metoprolol for hypertension?
in using both.
